[{'document': ['The search for the optimal coupling of several types of catalysts has inspired the development of multi-catalytic hybrid materials (MCHMs) featuring chem. and biol. catalysts co-immobilized on the same support.  This complex interdisciplinary strategy, located at the crossroads of chem., biol., and materials science, calls for a wide range of skills and offers access to MCHMs with diverse catalytic properties and applications.  In particular, numerous org. and inorg. supports, both rigid or flexible, have been used to develop remarkable hybrid catalysts that exhibit synergetic effects and achieve yields and enantiomeric excesses unattainable through the sep. use of catalyst constituents even in one-pot/one step processes.  As the spearhead of hybrid catalysis, MCHMs conc. the very essence of this field, requiring seamless communication and collaboration between chemists, biologists, materials scientists, and modeling specialists.  Future developments in this area are expected to revolutionise catalysis and make it an inter- or even transdisciplinary research area.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['optimal coupling of several types of catalysts', 'catalytic properties and applications', 'catalysis and make it an inter- or even transdisciplinary research area'], 'process': ['one-pot/one step processes', 'hybrid catalysis', 'MCHMs'], 'material': ['multi-catalytic hybrid materials', 'MCHMs', 'chem. and biol. catalysts', 'MCHMs', 'org. and inorg. supports', 'remarkable hybrid catalysts', 'catalyst constituents', 'materials scientists', 'modeling specialists']}], 'authors': 'Heuson, Egon; Froidevaux, Renato; Itabaiana, Ivaldo; Wojcieszak, Robert; Capron, Mickael; Dumeignil, Franck', 'DOI': '10.1039/d0gc04172f', 'journal': 'Green Chemistry ', 'title': 'Optimisation of catalysts coupling in multi-catalytic hybrid materials: perspectives for the next revolution in catalysis'}, {'document': ["In the course of our research aimed at the design of new biocatalytic processes for the enantioselective synthesis of chiral amines, we have developed new continuous assays for the screening of amine-transaminase collections.  These assays are based on the use of hypotaurine as an irreversible amine donor.  This β-aminosulfinic acid is converted upon transamination into 2-oxoethylsulfinic acid, which instantaneously decomps. into acetaldehyde and sulfite ions that can be easily detected by spectrophotometry using Ellman's reagent.  Two complementary assays were developed based on this titrn. method.  Firstly, a direct assay allowed detection of various transaminases able to use hypotaurine as an amino donor.  In a second coupled assay, L-alanine is used as a generic donor substrate of amine-transaminases and is regenerated using an auxiliary hypotaurine-transaminase.  The powerful and complementary nature of both assays was demonstrated through the screening of a collection of 549 amine-transaminases from biodiversity, thus allowing the discovery of a variety of valuable new biocatalysts for use in synthetic processes."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['design of new biocatalytic processes', 'enantioselective synthesis of chiral amines', 'screening of amine-transaminase collections', 'titrn. method', 'discovery of a variety of valuable new biocatalysts'], 'process': ['transamination', 'assays', 'direct assay', 'screening of a collection of 549 amine-transaminases', 'synthetic processes'], 'material': ['hypotaurine', 'irreversible amine donor', 'β-aminosulfinic acid', '2-oxoethylsulfinic', 'acetaldehyde', 'sulfite ions', "Ellman's reagent", 'hypotaurine', 'amino donor', 'L-alanine', 'generic donor substrate', 'amine-transaminases', 'auxiliary hypotaurine-transaminase']}], 'authors': 'Gourbeyre, Lea; Heuson, Egon; Charmantray, Franck; Helaine, Virgil; Debard, Adrien; Petit, Jean-Louis; de Berardinis, Veronique; Gefflaut, Thierry', 'DOI': '10.1039/d0cy02070b', 'journal': 'Catalysis Science & Technology ', 'title': 'Biocatalysed synthesis of chiral amines: continuous colorimetric assays for mining amine-transaminases'}, {'document': ['Hybrid catalysis, which combines chemo- and biocatalytic benefits, is an efficient way to address green chem. principles. 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) is a versatile building block in numerous industrial applications.  To date, few studies have described the prodn. of its amine derivs. and their polymers.  Finding a good methodol. to directly transform HMF to 5-aminomethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (AMFC) therefore represents an important challenge.  After selecting the best oxidn. catalyst for HMF conversion to 5-aldehyde-2-furancarboxylic acid and immobilizing a transaminase onto a solid carrier, we implemented the first one-pot/two-steps hybrid catalytic process to produce AMFC (77% yield); this is the most efficient AMFC catalytic prodn. method from HMF reported to date.  This process also produced 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (21% yield) as a major secondary product that can be applied to polymer syntheses such as polyethylene furanoate.  Herein, we report a novel way to access new biosourced polymers based on HMF oxidized and aminated derivs.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['green chem. principles', 'novel way to access new biosourced polymers'], 'process': ['Hybrid catalysis', 'immobilizing a transaminase', 'polymer syntheses'], 'material': ['5-Hydroxymethylfurfural', 'HMF', 'building block', 'prodn', 'amine derivs', 'polymers', 'HMF', '5-aminomethyl-2-furancarboxylic', 'AMFC', 'oxidn. catalyst', 'HMF', '5-aldehyde-2-furancarboxylic', 'solid carrier', 'AMFC', 'AMFC', 'HMF', '2,5-furandicarboxylic', 'major secondary product', 'polyethylene furanoate', 'HMF']}], 'authors': 'Lancien, Antoine; Wojcieszak, Robert; Cuvelier, Eric; Duban, Matthieu; Dhulster, Pascal; Paul, Sebastien; Dumeignil, Franck; Froidevaux, Renato; Heuson, Egon', 'DOI': '10.1002/cctc.202001923', 'journal': 'ChemCatChem ', 'title': 'Hybrid Conversion of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural to 5-Aminomethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid: Toward New Bio-sourced Polymers'}, {'document': ['Direct MeOH oxidn. is expected to play a central role in low-polluting future power sources.  However, the sluggish and complex electrooxidn. of MeOH is one of the limiting factors for any practical application.  To solve this issue, the use of plasmonic is considered as a promising way to accelerate the MeOH oxidn. reaction.  The authors report on a novel approach for achieving enhanced MeOH oxidn. currents.  Perforated Au thin film anodes were decorated with Pt/Ru via electrochem. deposition and studied for their ability for plasmon-enhanced electrocatalytic MeOH oxidn. in alk. media.  The novel MeOH oxidn. anode (AuNHs/PtRu), combining the strong light absorption properties of a Au nanoholes array-based electrode (AuNHs) with surface-anchored bimetallic Pt/Ru nanostructures, known for their high activity toward MeOH oxidn., proved to be highly efficient in converting MeOH via the hot holes generated in the plasmonic electrode.  Without light illumination, AuNHs/PtRu displayed a maximal c.d. of 13.7 mA/cm2 at -0.11 V vs. Ag/AgCl.  Enhancement to 17.2 mA/cm2 was achieved under 980 nm laser light illumination at a power d. of 2 W/cm2.  The thermal effect was negligible in this system, underlining a dominant plasmon process.  Fast generation and injection of charge carriers were also evidenced by the abrupt change in the c.d. upon laser irradn.  The good stability of the interface over several cycles makes this system interesting for MeOH electrooxidn.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enhanced MeOH oxidn. currents'], 'process': ['MeOH oxidn', 'low-polluting future power sources', 'electrooxidn.', 'MeOH oxidn. reaction', 'electrochem. deposition', 'plasmon-enhanced electrocatalytic', 'light absorption properties', 'light illumination', 'thermal effect', 'plasmon process', 'generation and injection of charge carriers', 'abrupt change in the c.d.', 'laser irradn', 'electrooxidn'], 'material': ['MeOH', 'plasmonic', 'Perforated Au thin film anodes', 'Pt/Ru', 'MeOH', 'alk. media', 'MeOH oxidn. anode', 'AuNHs', 'PtRu', 'Au nanoholes array-based electrode', 'AuNHs', 'surface-anchored bimetallic', 'Pt/Ru nanostructures', 'MeOH', 'MeOH', 'hot holes', 'plasmonic electrode', 'AuNHs', '/PtRu', 'Ag/AgCl', '980 nm laser', 'MeOH']}], 'authors': 'Lancien, Antoine; Wojcieszak, Robert; Cuvelier, Eric; Duban, Matthieu; Dhulster, Pascal; Paul, Sebastien; Dumeignil, Franck; Froidevaux, Renato; Heuson, Egon', 'DOI': '10.1002/cctc.202001446', 'journal': 'ChemCatChem ', 'title': 'Hybrid Conversion of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural to 5-Aminomethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid: Toward New Bio-sourced Polymers'}, {'document': ['Combining catalysts is not a recent concept.  For several decades, it has enabled the development of processes that are more economical in terms of solvents, energy, and carbon emissions.  This strategy leads the way in current catalytic research aiming to reduce the impact of the chem. industry on the environment and replace synthetic routes based on petroleum with those based on biomass.  In particular, hybrid catalysis, consisting of the integrated combination of several catalysts of different types, often a chem. and bio-catalyst, represents one of the most promising innovations in the field, esp. when the two catalysts are combined in a single multicatalytic material.  Several examples of such achievements have already been reported; however, these are rare compared to single-type catalyst combinations.  It is important to understand the issues that govern hybrid catalysis to overcome the obstacles affecting its implementation, starting with the difficulties of communication between scientists of different fields.  To surmount this barrier, this article proposes a new naming system for multicatalytic processes and reactions to unify common terms describing the same concepts.  This system allows for the comparison of multicatalytic systems developed in both chem. and biol. and highlights their differences, similarities, and limitations.  Hybrid catalysis is a rapidly expanding interdisciplinary field that builds on the developments from both the field of catalysis and materials science.  Although the no. of synthetic examples is limited, they are growing exponentially using the latest innovative materials for the prodn. of multicatalytic materials for use in optimized "one-pot/one-step" processes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['reduce the impact of the chem. industry on the environment', 'new naming system', 'comparison of multicatalytic systems', 'materials science'], 'process': ['Combining catalysts', 'synthetic routes', 'hybrid catalysis', 'integrated combination of several catalysts', 'hybrid catalysis', 'multicatalytic processes', 'reactions', 'Hybrid catalysis', 'catalysis', 'one-pot/one-step" processes'], 'material': ['petroleum', 'biomass', 'chem. and bio-catalyst', 'catalysts', 'single-type catalyst', 'materials for the prodn', 'multicatalytic materials']}], 'authors': 'Pang, Liuqing; Barras, Alexandre; Mishyn, Vladyslav; Heyte, Svetlana; Heuson, Egon; Oubaha, Hamid; Sandu, Georgiana; Melinte, Sorin; Boukherroub, Rabah; Szunerits, Sabine', 'DOI': '10.1021/acsami.0c14436', 'journal': 'ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces ', 'title': 'Plasmon-Driven Electrochemical Methanol Oxidation on Gold Nanohole Electrodes'}, {'document': ['This study aimed at developing a complete miniaturized high-throughput screening workflow for the evaluation of the Cell Wall-Degrading Enzyme (CWDE) activities produced by any fungal strain directly cultivated on raw feedstock in a submerged manner.  In this study, wheat straw was selected as model substrate as it represents an important carbon source but yet poorly valorized to yield high added value products.  Fungi were grown in a microbioreactor in a high-throughput (HT) way to replace the fastidious shaking flask cultivations.  Both approaches were compared in order to validate our new methodol.  The range of CWDE activities produced from the cultures was assayed using AZO-died and pNP-linked substrates in an SBS plate format using a Biomek FXp pipetting platform.  As highlighted in this study, it was shown that the CWDE activities gathered from the microbioreactor cultivations were similar or higher to those obtained from shake flasks cultures, with a lower std. deviation on the measured values, making this new method much faster than the traditional one and suitable for HT CWDE prodn. thanks to its pipetting platform compatibility.  Also, the results showed that the enzymic activities measured were the same when doing the assay manually or using the automated method.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['developing a complete miniaturized high-throughput screening workflow', 'pipetting platform compatibility'], 'process': ['Cell Wall-Degrading Enzyme', 'CWDE', 'high-throughput', 'HT', 'CWDE activities', 'CWDE activities', 'microbioreactor cultivations', 'enzymic activities', 'automated method'], 'material': ['fungal strain', 'raw feedstock', 'wheat straw', 'carbon source', 'Fungi', 'microbioreactor', 'AZO-died and pNP-linked substrates', 'SBS plate format', 'Biomek FXp pipetting platform', 'shake flasks cultures', 'HT CWDE prodn']}], 'authors': 'Heuson, Egon; Dumeignil, Franck', 'DOI': '10.1039/d0cy00696c', 'journal': 'Catalysis Science & Technology ', 'title': 'The various levels of integration of chemo- and bio-catalysis towards hybrid catalysis'}, {'document': ['Enzymic transamination is a useful method for the green and highly enantioselective synthesis of chiral amines and non-canonical amino acids which are of major importance as intermediates in medicinal chem.  However, transamination reactions are usually reversible and synthetic applications of transaminases often require the implementation of an equil. shift strategy.  Herein, we report a highly effective approach using glutamine as smart amine donor.  This amino acid is converted upon transamination into 2-oxoglutaramate which undergoes a fast cyclization displacing the transamination equil.  We have developed a new activity assay in order to identify transaminases from biodiversity able to convert various α-keto acids into valuable amino acids of L- or D-series in the presence of glutamine as amine donor.  Discovered transaminases were then used to prep. in high yield and with high enantioselectivity three amino acids of pharmaceutical importance, homophenylalanine, homoalanine and tert-leucine by simply using a nearly stoichiometric amt. of glutamine as amine donor.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['green and highly enantioselective synthesis', 'synthetic applications'], 'process': ['Enzymic transamination', 'medicinal chem', 'transamination reactions', 'equil. shift strategy', 'transamination', 'fast cyclization', 'activity assay', 'identify transaminases', 'prep'], 'material': ['chiral amines', 'non-canonical amino acids', 'transaminases', 'glutamine', 'amine donor', 'amino acid', '2-oxoglutaramate', 'transamination equil', 'α-keto acids', 'valuable amino acids', 'glutamine', 'amine donor', 'three amino', 'homophenylalanine', 'homoalanine', 'tert', '-', 'leucine', 'glutamine', 'amine donor']}], 'authors': 'Raulo, Roxane; Heuson, Egon; Siah, Ali; Phalip, Vincent; Froidevaux, Renato', 'DOI': '10.1111/1751-7915.13405', 'journal': 'Microbial Biotechnology ', 'title': 'Innovative microscale workflow from fungi cultures to Cell Wall-Degrading Enzyme screening'}, {'document': ['Lipopeptides, such as surfactins are important biosurfactants produced by Bacillus sp. that find applications in many areas (environment, medicine, and food industries).  Giving their importance, the use of simple detection methods will facilitate screening and quantification.  In the present work, the authors describe a completely automated workflow for the screening of lipopeptide-producing strains, including quantification.  First, isolated colonies from environmental samples are automatically picked and inoculated in 96 wells growth plate.  After overnight incubation, surfactin produced in the broth is quantified, using a new sensitive fluorescent method.  The method uses fluorescein (FL), which is an anionic dye at neutral to alk. pH and forms a stable complex with the cationic surfactant cetylpiridinium chloride (CPC), quenching fluorescence.  Upon addn. of surfactin or other lipopeptides, fluorescein is released from the CPC-FL complex and quantified.  The robustness of this method is assessed by comparing the quantification results to those conventionally measured by RP-UPLC and the results of strain screening are confirmed by MALDI-ToF anal.  The authors report for the first time the successful application of this anal. method for high-throughput screening of novel lipopeptide-producing strains.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['screening and quantification', 'screening of lipopeptide-producing strains', 'quantification', 'high-throughput screening', 'novel lipopeptide-producing strains'], 'process': ['simple detection methods', 'quenching fluorescence', 'RP-UPLC', 'strain screening', 'MALDI-ToF anal', 'anal. method'], 'material': ['Lipopeptides', 'surfactins', 'Bacillus sp', 'isolated colonies', 'environmental samples', '96 wells growth plate', 'surfactin', 'new sensitive fluorescent method', 'fluorescein', 'FL', 'anionic dye', 'cationic surfactant', 'cetylpiridinium', 'CPC', 'surfactin', 'fluorescein', 'CPC-FL complex']}], 'authors': 'Heuson, Egon; Charmantray, Franck; Petit, Jean-Louis; de Berardinis, Veronique; Gefflaut, Thierry', 'DOI': '10.1002/adsc.201801278', 'journal': 'Advanced Synthesis & Catalysis ', 'title': 'Enantioselective Synthesis of D- and L-α-Amino Acids by Enzymatic Transamination Using Glutamine as Smart Amine Donor'}, {'document': ['Transaminases are efficient tools for the stereoselective conversion of prochiral ketones into valuable chiral amines.  Notably, the diversity of naturally occurring α-transaminases offers access to a wide range of l- and d-α-amino acids.  We describe here two continuous colorimetric assays for the quantification of transamination activities between a keto acid and a std. donor substrate (l- or d-Glutamic acid or cysteine sulfinic acid).  These assays are helpful for kinetic studies as well as for high-throughput screening of enzyme collections.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['stereoselective conversion of prochiral ketones', 'quantification of transamination activities'], 'process': ['colorimetric assays', 'kinetic studies', 'high-throughput screening of enzyme collections'], 'material': ['Transaminases', 'valuable chiral amines', 'naturally occurring α-transaminases', 'l- and d-α-amino', 'a keto acid', 'std. donor substrate', 'l- or d-Glutamic', 'cysteine sulfinic']}], 'authors': 'Heuson, Egon; Etchegaray, Augusto; Filipe, Stephanie L.; Beretta, Daniel; Chevalier, Mickael; Phalip, Vincent; Coutte, Francois', 'DOI': '10.1002/biot.201800314', 'journal': 'Biotechnology Journal ', 'title': 'Screening of Lipopeptide-Producing Strains of Bacillus sp. Using a New Automated and Sensitive Fluorescence Detection Method'}, {'document': ['Notably available from the cellulose contained in lignocellulosic biomass, glucose is a highly attractive substrate for eco-efficient processes towards high-value chems.  A recent strategy for biomass valorization consists on combining biocatalysis and chemocatalysis to realize the so-called chemo-enzymic or hybrid catalysis.  Optimization of the glucose conversion to 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) is the object of many research efforts.  HMF can be produced by chemo-catalyzed fructose dehydration, while fructose can be selectively obtained from enzymic glucose isomerization.  Despite recent advances in HMF prodn., a fully integrated efficient process remains to be demonstrated.  Our innovative approach consists on a continuous process involving enzymic glucose isomerization, selective arylboronic-acid mediated fructose complexation/transportation, and chem. fructose dehydration to HMF.  We designed a novel reactor based on two aq. phases dynamically connected via an org. liq. membrane, which enabled substantial enhancement of glucose conversion (70%) while avoiding intermediate sepn. steps.  Furthermore, in the as-combined steps, the use of an immobilized glucose isomerase and an acidic resin facilitates catalyst recycling.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['eco-efficient processes', 'selective arylboronic-acid mediated fructose complexation'], 'process': ['biomass valorization', 'biocatalysis', 'chemocatalysis', 'chemo-enzymic', 'hybrid catalysis', 'glucose conversion', 'chemo-catalyzed', 'fructose dehydration', 'enzymic glucose isomerization', 'continuous process', 'enzymic glucose isomerization', 'chem. fructose dehydration', 'sepn. steps', 'catalyst recycling'], 'material': ['cellulose', 'lignocellulosic biomass', 'glucose', '5-hydroxymethylfurfural', 'HMF', 'HMF', 'fructose', 'HMF prodn', 'HMF', 'reactor', 'aq. phases', 'org. liq. membrane', 'glucose', 'immobilized glucose isomerase', 'acidic resin']}], 'authors': 'Heuson, Egon; Petit, Jean-Louis; Charmantray, Franck; de Berardinis, Veronique; Gefflaut, Thierry', 'DOI': '10.1007/978-1-4939-7366-8_13', 'journal': 'Methods in Molecular Biology ', 'title': 'Continuous high-throughput colorimetric assays for α-transaminases'}, {'document': ['This study presents a miniaturized 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone hydrochloride-assay (MBTH-assay)1, optimized for high-throughput measurement of shrimp phenol oxidase activities and the screening of potential inhibitors of post-mortem melanosis.  To validate this approach, assay parameters, including limit of detection and dynamic range, were compared to values obtained for DOPAchrome-assay, used here as a ref. method.  A reliable high-throughput automatized anal. was also performed, under standardized parameters, in order to compare and characterize 40 potential inhibitors of phenol oxidase activities.  Among the selected mols., twenty showed inhibitory action.  Enzyme-inhibitor dissocn. const. (Ki), median inhibitor concn. (IC50) and inhibition modes could be detd. for nine of them. 4-Hexylresorcinol, N-phenylthiourea L-cystein and glutathione displayed Ki values lower than sulfite salts (Na2S2O5 and Na2SO3) used as pos. controls.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['miniaturized 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone hydrochloride-assay', 'shrimp phenol oxidase activities', 'compare and characterize 40 potential inhibitors of phenol oxidase activities'], 'process': ['MBTH-assay)1', 'high-throughput measurement', 'screening of potential inhibitors of post-mortem melanosis', 'DOPAchrome-assay', 'ref. method', 'Ki'], 'material': ['assay parameters', 'mols', 'Enzyme-inhibitor dissocn', 'median inhibitor', '4-Hexylresorcinol', 'N-phenylthiourea', 'glutathione', 'sulfite salts', 'Na2S2O5', 'Na2SO3']}], 'authors': 'Gimbernat, Alexandra; Guehl, Marie; Ferreira, Nicolas Lopes; Heuson, Egon; Dhulster, Pascal; Capron, Mickael; Dumeignil, Franck; Delcroix, Damien; Girardon, Jean-Sebastien; Froidevaux, Renato', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'a sequential chemo-enzymatic approach to a continuous process for HMF production from glucos', 'title': 'From a sequential chemo-enzymatic approach to a continuous process for HMF production from glucose'}, {'document': ['Efficient bi-enzymic cascades combining aldolases and α-transaminases were designed for the synthesis of γ-hydroxy-α-amino acids.  These recycling cascades provide high stereoselectivity, atom economy, and an equil. shift of the transamination.  L-Syn- or anti-4-hydroxyglutamic acid and D-anti-4,5-dihydroxynorvaline were thus prepd. in 83-95% yield in one step from simple substrates.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Efficient bi-enzymic cascades', 'atom economy', 'equil. shift'], 'process': ['synthesis of γ-hydroxy-α-amino acids', 'recycling cascades', 'transamination'], 'material': ['aldolases', 'α-transaminases', 'L-Syn- or anti-4-hydroxyglutamic', 'D-anti-4,5-dihydroxynorvaline', 'simple substrates']}], 'authors': 'Zeyer, Estelle; Heuson, Egon; Himber, Charlotte; Phalip, Vincent; Le Bris, Cedric; Dhulster, Pascal; Brisabois, Anne; Flahaut, Christophe; Cudennec, Benoit; Grard, Thierry; et al', 'DOI': '10.3390/catal8080335', 'journal': 'Catalysts ', 'title': 'Novel approach to identify phenoloxidases inhibitors: Optimization of spectrophotometric MBTH assay for high throughput use enzymatic assays and analysis'}, {'document': ['The effects of yeast Kluyveromyces marxianus S-2-05, of cheese origin, were assessed on the intestine anaerobe symbiont Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron ATCC 29741 to unveil any changes in its antioxidant properties.  To this end, these microorganisms were grown and incubated either sep., or co-incubated, under anaerobic atm.  Afterwards, the microbial cells were recovered and washed, and exts. were prepd. using a sterile detergent soln. to mimic the intestine detergent content.  The exts. prepd. from K. marxianus S-2-05 and ref. strain K. marxianus MUCL 29917, grown under different conditions, were assessed for their antioxidant properties against superoxide anion and hydrogen peroxide.  Exts. from both yeasts showed antioxidative effects, which were particularly important for K. marxianus S-02-5 after anaerobic incubation.  Moreover, K. marxianus S-02-5 displayed a high level of activity against the aforementioned reactive oxygen species, enhancing that of B. thetaiotaomicron ATCC 29741, after the co-incubation process.  Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was used to sep. the proteins extd.  Superoxide dismutase, thiol peroxidase, rubrerythrin intensively produced by B. thetaiotaomicron induced by the yeast-were identified by mass spectrometry.  The antioxidative potential evidenced for K. marxianus S-02-5 is another advantage which could justify the utilization of this strain as a probiotic for countering intestinal inflammatory processes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['unveil any changes in its antioxidant properties', 'countering intestinal inflammatory processes'], 'process': ['antioxidant properties', 'antioxidative effects', 'anaerobic incubation', 'Superoxide dismutase', 'mass spectrometry'], 'material': ['yeast Kluyveromyces marxianus S-2-05', 'cheese origin', 'intestine anaerobe symbiont', 'Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron', 'microbial cells', 'exts', 'sterile detergent soln', 'intestine detergent', 'exts. prepd', 'K. marxianus S-2-', 'superoxide', 'hydrogen peroxide', 'Exts', 'yeasts', 'K. marxianus S-02-', 'K. marxianus S-02-5', 'reactive oxygen species', 'thetaiotaomicron', 'Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel', 'thiol peroxidase', 'rubrerythrin', 'B. thetaiotaomicron', 'yeast', 'K. marxianus S-02-', 'probiotic']}], 'authors': 'Guerard-Helaine, Christine; Heuson, Egon; Ndiaye, Moussa; Gourbeyre, Lea; Lemaire, Marielle; Helaine, Virgil; Charmantray, Franck; Petit, Jean-Louis; Salanoubat, Marcel; de Berardinis, Veronique; et al', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.foodcont.2018.05.043', 'journal': 'Food Control ', 'title': 'Stereoselective synthesis of γ-hydroxy-α-amino acids through aldolase-transaminase recycling cascades'}, {'document': ['A review.  Innovations in novel enzyme discoveries impact upon a wide range of industries for which biocatalysis and biotransformations represent a great challenge, i.e., food industry, polymers and chem. industry.  Key tools and technologies, such as bioinformatics tools to guide mutant library design, mol. biol. tools to create mutants library, microfluidics/microplates, parallel miniscale bioreactors and mass spectrometry technologies to create high-throughput screening methods and exptl. design tools for screening and optimization, allow to evolve the discovery, development and implementation of enzymes and whole cells in (bio)processes.  These technol. innovations are also accompanied by the development and implementation of clean and sustainable integrated processes to meet the growing needs of chem., pharmaceutical, environmental and biorefinery industries.  This review gives an overview of the benefits of high-throughput screening approach from the discovery and engineering of biocatalysts to cell culture for optimizing their prodn. in integrated processes and their extn./purifn.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Innovations in novel enzyme discoveries', 'biocatalysis', 'biotransformations', 'food industry', 'screening and optimization', 'discovery, development and implementation', 'development and implementation of clean and sustainable integrated processes', 'chem.', 'optimizing their prodn'], 'process': ['bioinformatics tools', 'mutant library design', 'mass spectrometry technologies', 'high-throughput screening methods', 'design tools', 'high-throughput screening approach', 'cell culture', 'integrated processes'], 'material': ['polymers', 'mol. biol. tools', 'microfluidics/microplates', 'parallel miniscale bioreactors', 'enzymes', 'whole cells', '(bio)processes']}], 'authors': 'Ceugniez, Alexandre; Tourret, Melissa; Dussert, Elodie; Coucheney, Francoise; Deracinois, Barbara; Jacques, Philippe; Flahaut, Christophe; Heuson, Egon; Drider, Djamel; Behra-Miellet, Josette', 'DOI': '10.1039/C7CC00742F', 'journal': 'Chemical Communications ', 'title': 'Interactions between Kluyveromyces marxianus from cheese origin and the intestinal symbiont Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron: Impressive antioxidative effects'}, {'document': ['An efficient simultaneous cascade of two enzymic steps catalyzed by a thermostable transaminase and transketolase was performed at elevated temps. allowing the synthesis of naturally rare L-erythro (3S,4S) ketoses. L-ribulose, 5-deoxy-L-ribulose, D-tagatose and L-psicose, which are highly valuable chiral building blocks and display prominent biol. properties, were obtained on a preparative scale with excellent stereoselectivities and good yields.  A thermostable transketolase from Geobacillus stearothermophilus catalyzed at high temps. the stereospecific synthesis of L-erythro (3S,4S)-configured ketoses from (2S)-hydroxylated aldehydes and β-hydroxypyruvate in which the latter is generated in an unprecedented manner in situ from natural L-serine and pyruvate using a novel thermostable L-α-transaminase from the thermophilic bacterium Thermosinus carboxydivorans.  Overall, this cascade synthesis prevents the thermal decompn. of the labile β-hydroxypyruvate and offers an efficient and environmentally friendly procedure.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['simultaneous cascade of two enzymic steps'], 'process': ['thermostable transaminase', 'elevated temps', 'high temps', 'stereospecific synthesis', 'cascade synthesis', 'thermal decompn'], 'material': ['transketolase', 'naturally rare L-erythro', '(3S,4S) ketoses', 'L-ribulose', '5-deoxy-L-ribulose', 'D-tagatose', 'L-psicose', 'thermostable transketolase', 'Geobacillus', 'L-erythro (3S,4S)-configured ketoses', '(2S)-hydroxylated aldehydes', 'β-hydroxypyruvate', 'natural L-serine', 'pyruvate', 'thermostable L-α-transaminase', 'thermophilic bacterium', 'β-hydroxypyruvate']}], 'authors': 'Jacques, Philippe; Bechet, Max; Bigan, Muriel; Caly, Delphine; Chataigne, Gabrielle; Coutte, Francois; Flahaut, Christophe; Heuson, Egon; Leclere, Valerie; Lecouturier, Didier; et al', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.lwt.2017.03.056', 'journal': 'LWT--Food Science and Technology ', 'title': 'High-throughput strategies for the discovery and engineering of enzymes for biocatalysis'}, {'document': ["In the course of a project devoted to the stereoselective synthesis of non-proteinogenic α-amino acids using α-transaminases (α-TA), we report the design and optimization of generic high-throughput continuous assays for the screening of α-TA libraries.  These assays are based on the use of L- or D-cysteine sulfinic acid (CSA) as irreversible amino donor and subsequent sulfite titrn. by colorimetry.  The assays' quality was assessed under screening conditions.  Hit selection thresholds were accurately detd. for every couple of substrates and a library of 232 putative transaminases expressed in Escherichia coli host cells was screened.  The reported high throughput screening assays proved very sensitive allowing the detection with high confidence of activities as low as 10 μU (i.e., 0.01 nmol substrate converted per min).  The assays were also evidenced to be stereochem. discriminant since L-CSA and D-CSA allowed the exclusive detection of L-TA and D-TA, resp.  These generic assays thus allow testing the stereoselective conversion of a wide range of α-keto acids into α-amino acids of interest.  As a proof of principle, the use of 2-oxo-4-phenylbutyric acid as acceptor substrate led to the identification of 54 new α-TA offering an access to valuable L- or D-homophenylalanine."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['stereoselective synthesis of non-proteinogenic α-amino acids', 'design and optimization of generic high-throughput continuous assays', 'screening of α-TA libraries', 'Hit selection thresholds', 'detection with high confidence of activities', 'stereoselective conversion of a wide range of α-keto acids'], 'process': ['assays', 'sulfite titrn', 'colorimetry', 'screening conditions', 'high throughput screening', 'substrate converted per min', 'generic assays'], 'material': ['α-transaminases', 'α-TA', 'L- or D-cysteine sulfinic', 'CSA', 'irreversible amino donor', 'Escherichia coli host cells', 'L-CSA', 'D-CSA', 'L-TA', 'D-TA', 'α-amino', '2-oxo-4-phenylbutyric acid', 'α-TA', 'valuable L- or D-homophenylalanine']}], 'authors': 'Lorilliere, Marion; De Sousa, Maxime; Bruna, Felipe; Heuson, Egon; Gefflaut, Thierry; de Berardinis, Veronique; Saravanan, Thangavelu; Yi, Dong; Fessner, Wolf-Dieter; Charmantray, Franck; et al', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00449-016-1690-x', 'journal': 'Bioprocess and Biosystems Engineering ', 'title': 'One-pot, two-step cascade synthesis of naturally rare L-erythro (3S,4S) ketoses by coupling a thermostable transaminase and transketolase'}, {'document': ['The membrane bound enzyme monoamine oxidase exist in two splice variants designated A and B (MAO-A and MAO-B) and are key players in the oxidative metab. of monoamines in mammalians.  Despite their importance and being a prevalent target for the development of inhibitors as drugs, no systematic study of substrate specificity has been reported.  In this study we present a systematic study of the MAO-A and MAO-B substrate specificity profile by probing two series of phenethylamine analogs.  Km and kcat values were detd. for four N-alkyl analogs 2-5 and four aryl halide analogs 6-9 at MAO-A and MAO-B.  A following in silico study disclosed a new adjacent compartment to the MAO-B substrate pocket defined by amino acids Tyr188, Tyr435, Tyr398, Thr399, Cys172 and Gly434.  This new insight is important for the understanding of the substrate specificity of the MAO-B enzyme and will be relevant for future drug design within the field of monoamines.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['oxidative metab. of monoamines', 'inhibitors as drugs', 'substrate specificity', 'systematic study of the MAO-A and MAO-B substrate specificity profile', 'understanding of the substrate specificity', 'drug design'], 'process': ['probing two series of phenethylamine analogs', 'Km', 'in silico study'], 'material': ['membrane bound enzyme', 'monoamine oxidase', 'MAO', '-', 'A', 'MAO', 'N-alkyl analogs', 'aryl halide analogs', 'MAO', 'MAO', 'MAO-B substrate pocket', 'MAO-B enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Heuson, Egon; Petit, Jean-Louis; Debard, Adrien; Job, Aurelie; Charmantray, Franck; de Berardinis, Veronique; Gefflaut, Thierry', 'DOI': '10.1039/C6GC02015A', 'journal': 'Green Chemistry ', 'title': 'Continuous colorimetric screening assays for the detection of specific L- or D-α-amino acid transaminases in enzyme libraries'}, {'document': ['Lipopeptides, such as surfactins are important biosurfactants produced by Bacillus sp. that find applications in many areas (environment, medicine, and food industries).  Giving their importance, the use of simple detection methods will facilitate screening and quantification.  In the present work, the authors describe a completely automated workflow for the screening of lipopeptide-producing strains, including quantification.  First, isolated colonies from environmental samples are automatically picked and inoculated in 96 wells growth plate.  After overnight incubation, surfactin produced in the broth is quantified, using a new sensitive fluorescent method.  The method uses fluorescein (FL), which is an anionic dye at neutral to alkaline pH and forms a stable complex with the cationic surfactant cetylpiridinium chloride (CPC), quenching fluorescence.  Upon addition of surfactin or other lipopeptides, fluorescein is released from the CPC-FL complex and quantified.  The robustness of this method is assessed by comparing the quantification results to those conventionally measured by RP-UPLC and the results of strain screening are confirmed by MALDI-ToF analysis.  The authors report for the first time the successful application of this analytical method for high-throughput screening of novel lipopeptide-producing strains.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['screening and quantification', 'screening of lipopeptide-producing strains', 'quantification', 'robustness of this method', 'high-throughput screening', 'novel lipopeptide-producing strains'], 'process': ['simple detection methods', 'RP-UPLC', 'strain screening', 'MALDI-ToF analysis', 'analytical method'], 'material': ['Lipopeptides', 'surfactins', 'Bacillus sp', 'isolated colonies', 'environmental samples', '96 wells growth plate', 'surfactin', 'new sensitive fluorescent method', 'fluorescein', 'FL', 'anionic dye', 'cationic surfactant', 'cetylpiridinium', 'CPC', 'surfactin', 'lipopeptides', 'fluorescein', 'CPC-FL complex']}], 'authors': 'Heuson, Egon; Storgaard, Morten; Huynh, Tri H. V.; Charmantray, Franck; Gefflaut, Thierry; Bunch, Lennart', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00253-015-6988-0', 'journal': 'Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology ', 'title': 'Profiling substrate specificity of two series of phenethylamine analogs at monoamine oxidase A and B'}, {'document': ['Transaminases are efficient tools for the stereoselective conversion of prochiral ketones into valuable chiral amines.  Notably, the diversity of naturally occurring α-transaminases offers access to a wide range of L- and D-α-amino acids.  We describe here two continuous colorimetric assays for the quantification of transamination activities between a keto acid and a standard donor substrate (L- or D-Glutamic acid or cysteine sulfinic acid).  These assays are helpful for kinetic studies as well as for high-throughput screening of enzyme collections.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['stereoselective conversion of prochiral ketones', 'quantification of transamination activities'], 'process': ['colorimetric assays', 'kinetic studies', 'high-throughput screening of enzyme collections'], 'material': ['Transaminases', 'valuable chiral amines', 'naturally occurring α-transaminases', 'L- and D-α-amino', 'a keto acid', 'standard donor substrate', 'L- or D-Glutamic', 'cysteine sulfinic']}], 'authors': 'Heuson Egon; Filipe Stephanie L; Chevalier Mickael; Phalip Vincent; Coutte Francois; Etchegaray Augusto; Beretta Daniel', 'DOI': '10.1039/C4OB01377H', 'journal': 'Organic & Biomolecular Chemistry ', 'title': 'Screening of Lipopeptide-Producing Strains of Bacillus sp. Using a New Automated and Sensitive Fluorescence Detection Method'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Type 2 diabetes mellitus is thought to develop from an interaction between environmental and genetic factors.  We examined whether clinical or genetic factors or both could predict progression to diabetes in two prospective cohorts.  METHODS:  We genotyped 16 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and examined clinical factors in 16,061 Swedish and 2770 Finnish subjects.  Type 2 diabetes developed in 2201 (11.7%) of these subjects during a median follow-up period of 23.5 years.  We also studied the effect of genetic variants on changes in insulin secretion and action over time.  RESULTS:  Strong predictors of diabetes were a family history of the disease, an increased body-mass index, elevated liver-enzyme levels, current smoking status, and reduced measures of insulin secretion and action.  Variants in 11 genes (TCF7L2, PPARG, FTO, KCNJ11, NOTCH2, WFS1, CDKAL1, IGF2BP2, SLC30A8, JAZF1, and HHEX) were significantly associated with the risk of type 2 diabetes independently of clinical risk factors; variants in 8 of these genes were associated with impaired beta-cell function.  The addition of specific genetic information to clinical factors slightly improved the prediction of future diabetes, with a slight increase in the area under the receiver-operating-characteristic curve from 0.74 to 0.75; however, the magnitude of the increase was significant (P=1.0x10(-4)).  The discriminative power of genetic risk factors improved with an increasing duration of follow-up, whereas that of clinical risk factors decreased.  CONCLUSIONS:  As compared with clinical risk factors alone, common genetic variants associated with the risk of diabetes had a small effect on the ability to predict the future development of type 2 diabetes.  The value of genetic factors increased with an increasing duration of follow-up.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Type 2 diabetes mellitus', 'genotyped 16 single-nucleotide polymorphisms', 'discriminative power'], 'process': ['interaction between environmental and genetic factors', 'SNPs', 'diabetes', 'increased body-mass index', 'Variants in 11 genes', 'variants in 8 of these genes', 'increasing duration of follow-up', 'genetic factors'], 'material': ['clinical or genetic factors', 'Type 2 diabetes', 'family history of the disease', 'elevated liver-enzyme', 'current smoking status', 'reduced measures of insulin secretion and action', 'TCF7L2', 'PPARG', 'FTO', 'KCNJ11', 'NOTCH2', 'WFS1', 'CDKAL1', 'IGF2BP2', 'SLC30A8', 'JAZF1', 'HHEX', 'clinical risk factors', 'impaired beta-cell function', 'specific genetic information', 'clinical factors', 'genetic risk factors', 'clinical risk factors', 'clinical risk factors', 'common genetic variants']}], 'authors': 'Heuson Egon; Charmantray Franck; Gefflaut Thierry; Heuson Egon; Charmantray Franck; Gefflaut Thierry; Petit Jean-Louis; de Berardinis Veronique; Petit Jean-Louis; de Berardinis Veronique; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Biotechnology journal ', 'title': 'Continuous High-Throughput Colorimetric Assays for α-Transaminases'}, {'document': ["Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) is a synaptic modulator as well as a neuroprotectant.  Currently, pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) is thought to be the major H(2)S-producing enzyme in the brain.  We recently found that brain homogenates of CBS-knockout mice, even in the absence of PLP, produce H(2)S at levels similar to those of wild-type mice, suggesting the presence of another H(2)S-producing enzyme.  Here we show that 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST) in combination with cysteine aminotransferase (CAT) produces H(2)S from cysteine.  In addition, 3MST is localized to neurons, and the levels of bound sulfane sulfur, the precursor of H(2)S, are greatly increased in the cells expressing 3MST and CAT but not increased in cells expressing functionally defective mutant enzymes.  These data present a new perspective on H(2)S production and storage in the brain."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['synaptic modulator', '3MST', 'cysteine aminotransferase', 'CAT'], 'material': ['Hydrogen sulfide', 'H(2)S', "pyridoxal-5'-phosphate", 'cystathionine', 'CBS', 'H(2)S-producing enzyme', 'brain homogenates', 'CBS-knockout mice', 'PLP', 'wild-type mice', 'H(2)S-producing enzyme', '3-mercaptopyruvate', 'cysteine', '3MST', 'sulfane sulfur', '3MST', 'CAT', 'functionally defective mutant enzymes']}], 'authors': 'Lyssenko Valeriya; Jonsson Anna; Almgren Peter; Pulizzi Nicolo; Isomaa Bo; Tuomi Tiinamaija; Berglund Goran; Altshuler David; Nilsson Peter; Groop Leif', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Methods in molecular biology ', 'title': 'Clinical risk factors, DNA variants, and the development of type 2 diabetes'}, {'document': ['A major concern in therapy of acute liver failure is protection of hepatocytes to prevent apoptosis and maintain liver function.  Small interfering RNA (siRNA) is a powerful tool to silence gene expression in mammalian cells.  To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of siRNA in vivo we used different mouse models of acute liver failure.  We directed 21-nt siRNAs against caspase 8, which is a key enzyme in death receptor-mediated apoptosis.  Systemic application of caspase 8 siRNA results in inhibition of caspase 8 gene expression in the liver, thereby preventing Fas (CD95)-mediated apoptosis.  Protection of hepatocytes by caspase 8 siRNA significantly attenuated acute liver damage induced by agonistic Fas (CD95) antibody (Jo2) or by adenovirus expressing Fas ligand (AdFasL).  However, in a clin. situation the siRNAs most likely would be applied after the onset of acute liver failure.  Therefore we injected caspase 8 siRNA at a time point during AdFasL- and adenovirus wild type (Adwt)-mediated liver failure with already elevated liver transaminases.  Improvement of survival due to RNA interference was significant even when caspase 8 siRNA was applied during ongoing acute liver failure.  In addn., it is of particular interest that caspase 8 siRNA treatment was successful not only in acute liver failure mediated by specific Fas agonistic agents (Jo2 and AdFasL) but also in acute liver failure mediated by Adwt, which is an animal model reflecting multiple mol. mechanisms involved in human acute viral hepatitis.  Consequently, our data raise hope for future successful application of siRNA in patients with acute liver failure.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['therapy of acute liver failure', 'protection of hepatocytes', 'maintain liver function', 'silence gene expression', 'therapeutic efficacy', 'acute liver failure', 'preventing Fas (CD95)-mediated apoptosis', 'clin. situation', 'Improvement of survival', 'animal model'], 'process': ['prevent apoptosis', 'death receptor-mediated apoptosis', 'Systemic application', 'inhibition of caspase 8 gene expression', 'liver failure', 'RNA interference', 'caspase 8 siRNA treatment', 'acute liver failure', 'Fas agonistic agents', 'acute liver failure'], 'material': ['Small interfering RNA', 'siRNA', 'siRNA', 'mouse models', '21-nt siRNAs', 'caspase', 'caspase 8 siRNA', 'hepatocytes', 'caspase 8 siRNA', 'Fas', 'CD95) antibody', 'adenovirus', 'Fas ligand', 'AdFasL', 'siRNAs', 'caspase 8 siRNA', 'AdFasL-', 'elevated liver transaminases', 'caspase 8 siRNA', 'Jo2', 'AdFasL', 'Adwt', 'siRNA']}], 'authors': 'Shibuya Norihiro; Tanaka Makiko; Yoshida Mikiharu; Ogasawara Yuki; Togawa Tadayasu; Ishii Kazuyuki; Kimura Hideo', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The New England journal of medicine ', 'title': '3-Mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase produces hydrogen sulfide and bound sulfane sulfur in the brain'}, {'document': ['Glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) may be a stress-responsive enzyme, as GDH exhibits considerable thermal stability, and de novo synthesis of the α-GDH subunit is induced by exogenous ammonium and senescence.  NaCl treatment induces reactive oxygen species (ROS), intracellular ammonia, expression of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv Xanthi) gdh-NAD;A1 encoding the α-subunit of GDH, increase in immunoreactive α-polypeptide, assembly of the anionic isoenzymes, and in vitro GDH aminating activity in tissues from hypergeous plant organs.  In vivo aminating GDH activity was confirmed by gas chromatog.-mass spectrometry monitoring of 15N-Glu, 15N-Gln, and 15N-Pro in the presence of methionine sulfoximine and amino oxyacetic acid, inhibitors of Gln synthetase and transaminases, resp.  Along with upregulation of α-GDH by NaCl, isocitrate dehydrogenase genes, which provide 2-oxoglutarate, are also induced.  Treatment with menadione also elicits a severalfold increase in ROS and immunoreactive α-polypeptide and GDH activity.  This suggests that ROS participate in the signaling pathway for GDH expression and protease activation, which contribute to intracellular hyperammonia.  Ammonium ions also mimic the effects of salinity in induction of gdh-NAD;A1 expression.  These results, confirmed in tobacco and grape (Vitis vinifera cv Sultanina) tissues, support the hypothesis that the salinity-generated ROS signal induces α-GDH subunit expression, and the anionic iso-GDHs assimilate ammonia, acting as antistress enzymes in ammonia detoxification and prodn. of Glu for Pro synthesis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Glutamate dehydrogenase', 'stress-responsive enzyme', 'de novo synthesis of the α-GDH subunit', 'senescence', 'NaCl treatment', 'reactive oxygen species', 'increase in immunoreactive α-polypeptide', 'assembly of the anionic isoenzymes', 'in vitro GDH aminating activity', 'gas chromatog.-mass spectrometry monitoring', 'upregulation of α-GDH', 'GDH activity', 'signaling pathway', 'protease activation', 'intracellular hyperammonia', 'salinity', 'gdh-NAD;A1 expression', 'salinity-generated ROS signal', 'ammonia detoxification', 'prodn', 'Pro synthesis'], 'material': ['GDH', 'GDH', 'exogenous ammonium', 'ROS', 'intracellular ammonia', 'tobacco (', 'Nicotiana tabacum cv Xanthi', 'gdh-NAD;A1', 'α-subunit of GDH', 'hypergeous plant organs', 'In vivo aminating GDH', '15N-Glu', '15N-Gln', '15N-Pro', 'methionine sulfoximine', 'amino oxyacetic', 'inhibitors of Gln', 'NaCl', 'isocitrate dehydrogenase genes', '2-oxoglutarate', 'menadione', 'ROS', 'immunoreactive α-polypeptide', 'ROS', 'GDH', 'Ammonium ions', 'tobacco', 'grape', 'Vitis vinifera cv Sultanina', 'α-GDH subunit', 'anionic iso-GDHs', 'ammonia', 'antistress enzymes', 'Glu']}], 'authors': 'Zender, Lars; Huetker, Sebastian; Liedtke, Christian; Tillmann, Hans Ludger; Zender, Steffen; Mundt, Bettina; Waltemathe, Morlen; Goesling, Thomas; Flemming, Peer; Malek, Nisar Peter; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Antioxidants & redox signaling ', 'title': 'Caspase 8 small interfering RNA prevents acute liver failure in mice'}, {'document': ['Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency (OTCD) is an inborn error of urea synthesis that has been considered as a model for liver-directed gene therapy.  Current treatment has failed to avert a high mortality or morbidity from hyperammonemic coma.  Restoration of enzyme activity in the liver should suffice to normalize metab.  An E1- and E4-deleted vector based on adenovirus type 5 and contg. human OTC cDNA was infused into the right hepatic artery in adults with partial OTCD.  Six cohorts of three or four subjects received 1/2 log-increasing doses of vector from 2 × 109 to 6 × 1011 particles/kg.  This paper describes the experience in all but the last subject, who experienced lethal complications.  Adverse effects included a flulike episode and a transient rise in temp., hepatic transaminases, thrombocytopenia, and hypophosphatemia.  Humoral responses to the vector were seen in all research subjects and a proliferative cellular response to the vector developed in apparently naive subjects.  In situ hybridization studies showed transgene expression in hepatocytes of 7 of 17 subjects.  Three of 11 subjects with symptoms related to OTCD showed modest increases in urea cycle metabolic activity that were not statistically significant.  The low levels of gene transfer detected in this trial suggest that at the doses tested, significant metabolic correction did not occur.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['avert a high mortality or morbidity'], 'process': ['Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency', 'OTCD', 'inborn error of urea synthesis', 'liver-directed gene therapy', 'Restoration of enzyme activity', 'lethal complications', 'flulike episode', 'thrombocytopenia', 'hypophosphatemia', 'Humoral responses', 'In situ hybridization studies', 'transgene expression', 'OTCD', 'urea cycle metabolic activity', 'low levels of', 'gene transfer', 'metabolic correction'], 'material': ['E1- and E4-deleted vector', 'adenovirus type', 'contg', 'human OTC cDNA', 'right hepatic artery', 'adults with partial OTCD', 'Six cohorts of three or four subjects', '1/2 log-increasing doses', 'vector', 'hepatic transaminases', 'vector', 'proliferative cellular response', 'apparently naive subjects', 'hepatocytes']}], 'authors': 'Skopelitis, Damianos S.; Paranychianakis, Nikolaos V.; Paschalidis, Konstantinos A.; Pliakonis, Eleni D.; Delis, Ioannis D.; Yakoumakis, Dimitris I.; Kouvarakis, Antonios; Papadakis, Anastasia K.; Stephanou, Euripides G.; Roubelakis-Angelakis, Kalliopi A.', 'DOI': '10.1073/pnas.1330920100', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Abiotic stress generates ROS that signal expression of anionic glutamate dehydrogenases to form glutamate for proline synthesis in tobacco and grapevine'}, {'document': ['The concns. of the oxidized and reduced substrates of the malic enzyme (EC 1.1.1.40) and isocitrate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.42), were measured in freeze-clamped rat livers.  By assuming that the reactants of these dehydrogenase systems are at equil. in the cytoplasm the [free NADP+]/[free NADPH] ratio was calcd.  The values of this ratio obtained under different nutritional conditions (well-fed, 48 hr starved, fed with a low carbohydrate diet, fed with a high-sucrose diet) were all of the same order of magnitude although characteristic changes occurred on varying the diet.  The value of the ratio fell on starvation and on feeding with the low-carbohydrate diet and rose slightly on feeding with the high-sucrose diet.  The mean values of the ratio were between 0.001 and 0.015, which is ∼100,000 times lower than the values of the cytoplasmic [free NAD+]/[free NADH] ratio.  The differences are the result of equilibra that are detd. by the equil. consts. of a no. of highly active readily reversible dehydrogenases and transaminases and the concns. of the substrates and products of these enzymes.  NAD and NADP couples share substrates.  This sharing provides a link between the redox states of the 2 couples.  The redox states of the NAD and NADP couples in heart and liver are similar.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['nutritional conditions', 'diet', 'starvation', 'redox', 'redox'], 'material': ['oxidized and reduced substrates', 'malic enzyme', 'isocitrate dehydrogenase', 'freeze-clamped rat livers', 'reactants', 'free NADP+]/[free NADPH', 'low carbohydrate diet', 'high-sucrose diet', 'low-carbohydrate diet', 'high-sucrose diet', 'equilibra', 'equil. consts', 'highly active readily reversible dehydrogenases', 'substrates and products', 'NAD', 'NADP couples', 'NAD and NADP couples', 'heart', 'liver']}], 'authors': 'Pratt D S; Kaplan M M', 'DOI': '10.1105/tpc.105.038323', 'journal': 'Plant Cell ', 'title': 'Evaluation of abnormal liver-enzyme results in asymptomatic patients'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Inflammation is causally related to atherothrombosis.  Treatment with canakinumab, a monoclonal antibody that inhibits inflammation by neutralizing interleukin-1β, resulted in a lower rate of cardiovascular events than placebo in a previous randomized trial.  We sought to determine whether an alternative approach to inflammation inhibition with low-dose methotrexate might provide similar benefit.  METHODS:  We conducted a randomized, double-blind trial of low-dose methotrexate (at a target dose of 15 to 20 mg weekly) or matching placebo in 4786 patients with previous myocardial infarction or multivessel coronary disease who additionally had either type 2 diabetes or the metabolic syndrome.  All participants received 1 mg of folate daily.  The primary end point at the onset of the trial was a composite of nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or cardiovascular death.  Near the conclusion of the trial, but before unblinding, hospitalization for unstable angina that led to urgent revascularization was added to the primary end point.  RESULTS:  The trial was stopped after a median follow-up of 2.3 years.  Methotrexate did not result in lower interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, or C-reactive protein levels than placebo.  The final primary end point occurred in 201 patients in the methotrexate group and in 207 in the placebo group (incidence rate, 4.13 vs. 4.31 per 100 person-years; hazard ratio, 0.96; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.79 to 1.16).  The original primary end point occurred in 170 patients in the methotrexate group and in 167 in the placebo group (incidence rate, 3.46 vs. 3.43 per 100 person-years; hazard ratio, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.82 to 1.25).  Methotrexate was associated with elevations in liver-enzyme levels, reductions in leukocyte counts and hematocrit levels, and a higher incidence of non-basal-cell skin cancers than placebo.  CONCLUSIONS:  Among patients with stable atherosclerosis, low-dose methotrexate did not reduce levels of interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, or C-reactive protein and did not result in fewer cardiovascular events than placebo. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; CIRT ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01594333.).'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['inhibits inflammation', 'neutralizing interleukin-1β, resulted in a lower rate of cardiovascular events', 'inflammation inhibition', 'urgent revascularization', 'elevations in liver-enzyme levels', 'reductions in leukocyte counts and hematocrit levels', 'low-dose methotrexate', 'reduce levels', 'CIRT'], 'material': ['canakinumab', 'monoclonal antibody', 'low-dose methotrexate', 'low-dose methotrexate', 'type 2 diabetes', '1 mg of folate', 'hospitalization for unstable angina', 'Methotrexate', 'C-reactive protein', 'placebo', 'methotrexate group', 'placebo group', 'methotrexate', 'placebo group', 'Methotrexate', 'non-basal-cell skin cancers', 'stable atherosclerosis', 'interleukin-6', 'C-reactive']}], 'authors': 'Raper, Steven E.; Yudkoff, Marc; Chirmule, Narendra; Gao, Guang-Ping; Nunes, Fred; Haskal, Ziv J.; Furth, Emma E.; Propert, Kathleen J.; Robinson, Michael B.; Magosin, Susan; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The New England journal of medicine ', 'title': 'A pilot study of in vivo liver-directed gene transfer with an adenoviral vector in partial ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency'}, {'document': ['Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) is a synaptic modulator as well as a neuroprotectant in the brain.  We recently showed that H(2)S protects neurons from oxidative stress by increasing the levels of glutathione (GSH), a major cellular antioxidant, by more than twice that of a control through enhancing the cystine transport.  Here we show that H(2)S enhances the transport of cysteine to increase GSH production more than cystine transport and to redistribute the localization of GSH to mitochondria.  The efficiency of GSH production enhanced by H(2)S is even greater by fourfold under oxidative stress by glutamate.  H(2)S reinstated GSH levels in the fetal brain decreased by ischemia/reperfusion in utero.  In addition, Neuro2a cells expressing a mitochondrial H(2)S-producing enzyme, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST), along with cysteine aminotransferase (CAT), showed significant resistance to oxidative stress.  The present study shows that H(2)S protects cells from oxidative stress by two mechanisms.  It enhances the production of GSH by enhancing cystine/cysteine transporters and redistributes GSH to mitochondria.  H(2)S produced in mitochondria also may directly suppress oxidative stress.  It provides a new mechanism of neuroprotection from oxidative stress by H(2)S.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enhancing the cystine transport', 'enhancing cystine/cysteine transporters'], 'process': ['synaptic modulator', 'oxidative stress', 'cystine transport', 'redistribute the localization of', 'GSH production', 'oxidative stress', 'ischemia/reperfusion', 'oxidative stress', 'oxidative stress', 'enhances the production of GSH', 'suppress oxidative stress'], 'material': ['Hydrogen sulfide', 'H(2)S', 'H(2)S protects', 'glutathione', 'GSH', 'cellular antioxidant', 'H(2)S enhances', 'cysteine', 'GSH', 'GSH', 'H(2)S', 'glutamate', 'H(2)S reinstated', 'GSH', 'Neuro2a cells', 'mitochondrial H(2)S-producing enzyme', '3-mercaptopyruvate', '3MST', 'cysteine aminotransferase', 'CAT', 'H(2)S protects cells', 'GSH', 'H(2)S produced in mitochondria', 'mechanism of neuroprotection from oxidative']}], 'authors': 'Veech, R. L.; Eggleston, L. V.; Krebs, H. A.', 'DOI': '10.1089/10430340152712719', 'journal': 'Human Gene Therapy ', 'title': 'Redox state of free nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate in the cytoplasm of rat liver'}, {'document': ['A review.  S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet, also known as SAM and SAMe) is the principal biol. Me donor synthesized in all mammalian cells but most abundantly in the liver.  Biosynthesis of AdoMet requires the enzyme methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT).  In mammals, two genes, MAT1A that is largely expressed by normal liver and MAT2A that is expressed by all extrahepatic tissues, encode MAT.  Patients with chronic liver disease have reduced MAT activity and AdoMet levels.  Mice lacking Mat1a have reduced hepatic AdoMet levels and develop oxidative stress, steatohepatitis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).  In these mice, several signaling pathways are abnormal that can contribute to HCC formation.  However, injury and HCC also occur if hepatic AdoMet level is excessive chronically.  This can result from inactive mutation of the enzyme glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT).  Children with GNMT mutation have elevated liver transaminases, and Gnmt knockout mice develop liver injury, fibrosis, and HCC.  Thus a normal hepatic AdoMet level is necessary to maintain liver health and prevent injury and HCC.  AdoMet is effective in cholestasis of pregnancy, and its role in other human liver diseases remains to be better defined.  In exptl. models, it is effective as a chemopreventive agent in HCC and perhaps other forms of cancer as well.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['maintain liver health', 'exptl. models'], 'process': ['Biosynthesis of AdoMet', 'methionine adenosyltransferase', 'reduced MAT activity', 'reduced hepatic AdoMet', 'oxidative stress', 'hepatocellular carcinoma', 'signaling pathways', 'injury', 'HCC', 'inactive mutation', 'glycine N-methyltransferase', 'fibrosis', 'HCC', 'chemopreventive agent'], 'material': ['S-adenosylmethionine', 'AdoMet', 'SAM', 'SAMe', 'biol. Me donor', 'liver', 'MAT', 'two genes', 'MAT1A', 'MAT2A', 'MAT', 'Patients with chronic liver disease', 'AdoMet', 'Mice lacking Mat1a', 'steatohepatitis', 'HCC', 'HCC', 'hepatic AdoMet', 'GNMT', 'Children with GNMT', 'liver transaminases', 'Gnmt knockout mice', 'hepatic AdoMet', 'AdoMet', 'HCC']}], 'authors': 'Ridker Paul M; Everett Brendan M; Pradhan Aruna; MacFadyen Jean G; Solomon Daniel H; Zaharris Elaine; Mam Virak; Hasan Ahmed; Rosenberg Yves; Iturriaga Erin; et al', 'DOI': '10.1042/bj1150609a', 'journal': 'Biochemical Journal ', 'title': 'Low-Dose Methotrexate for the Prevention of Atherosclerotic Events'}, {'document': ["The enzymic degrdn. of amino acids in cheese is believed to generate aroma compds. and therefore to be involved in the complex process of cheese flavor development.  In lactococci, transamination is the 1st step in the degrdn. of arom. and branched-chain amino acids which are precursors of aroma compds.  Here, the major arom. amino acid aminotransferase of a Lactococcus lactis subsp. cremoris strain was purified and characterized.  The enzyme transaminases the arom. amino acids, leucine, and methionine.  It uses the keto acids corresponding to these amino acids and α-ketoglutarate as amino group acceptors.  In contrast to most bacterial arom. aminotransferases, it does not act on aspartate and does not use oxaloacetate as 2nd substrate.  It is essential for the transformation of arom. amino acids to flavor compds.  It is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme and is composed of 2 identical subunits of 43.5 kDa.  The activity of the enzyme is optimal between pH 6.5 and 8 and between 35 and 45°C, but it is still active under cheese-ripening conditions."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['major arom. amino acid aminotransferase', 'transformation of arom. amino acids'], 'process': ['enzymic degrdn.', 'generate aroma compds', 'cheese flavor development', 'transamination', 'arom. aminotransferases', 'cheese-ripening conditions'], 'material': ['amino acids', 'cheese', 'lactococci', 'branched-chain amino acids', 'aroma compds', 'Lactococcus lactis subsp. cremoris strain', 'arom. amino acids', 'leucine', 'methionine', 'keto acids', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'amino group acceptors', 'aspartate', 'oxaloacetate', 'flavor compds', "pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme", '2 identical subunits']}], 'authors': 'Kimura Yuka; Goto Yu-Ichi; Kimura Hideo', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The New England journal of medicine ', 'title': 'Hydrogen sulfide increases glutathione production and suppresses oxidative stress in mitochondria'}, {'document': ['Pharmaceutical synthesis can benefit greatly from the selectivity gains associated with enzymatic catalysis.  Here, we report an efficient biocatalytic process to replace a recently implemented rhodium-catalyzed asymmetric enamine hydrogenation for the large-scale manufacture of the antidiabetic compound sitagliptin.  Starting from an enzyme that had the catalytic machinery to perform the desired chemistry but lacked any activity toward the prositagliptin ketone, we applied a substrate walking, modeling, and mutation approach to create a transaminase with marginal activity for the synthesis of the chiral amine; this variant was then further engineered via directed evolution for practical application in a manufacturing setting.  The resultant biocatalysts showed broad applicability toward the synthesis of chiral amines that previously were accessible only via resolution.  This work underscores the maturation of biocatalysis to enable efficient, economical, and environmentally benign processes for the manufacture of pharmaceuticals.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['this variant', 'practical application in a manufacturing setting', 'synthesis of chiral amines', 'maturation of biocatalysis', 'manufacture of pharmaceuticals'], 'process': ['Pharmaceutical synthesis', 'enzymatic catalysis', 'biocatalytic process', 'rhodium-catalyzed asymmetric enamine hydrogenation', 'substrate walking, modeling, and mutation approach', 'directed evolution', 'resolution'], 'material': ['sitagliptin', 'enzyme', 'prositagliptin ketone', 'transaminase', 'chiral amine', 'biocatalysts']}], 'authors': 'Lu, Shelly C.; Mato, Jose M.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Antioxidants & redox signaling ', 'title': 'S-adenosylmethionine in liver health, injury, and cancer'}, {'document': ['Here we show that glioblastoma express high levels of branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 (BCAT1), the enzyme that initiates the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs).  Expression of BCAT1 was exclusive to tumors carrying wild-type isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) and IDH2 genes and was highly correlated with methylation patterns in the BCAT1 promoter region.  BCAT1 expression was dependent on the concentration of α-ketoglutarate substrate in glioma cell lines and could be suppressed by ectopic overexpression of mutant IDH1 in immortalized human astrocytes, providing a link between IDH1 function and BCAT1 expression.  Suppression of BCAT1 in glioma cell lines blocked the excretion of glutamate and led to reduced proliferation and invasiveness in vitro, as well as significant decreases in tumor growth in a glioblastoma xenograft model.  These findings suggest a central role for BCAT1 in glioma pathogenesis, making BCAT1 and BCAA metabolism attractive targets for the development of targeted therapeutic approaches to treat patients with glioblastoma.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treat patients with glioblastoma'], 'process': ['branched-chain amino acid transaminase', 'initiates the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids', 'ectopic overexpression of mutant IDH1', 'Suppression of BCAT1', 'excretion', 'glioblastoma xenograft model'], 'material': ['glioblastoma', 'BCAT1', 'BCAAs', 'BCAT1', 'tumors', 'IDH1', 'IDH2 genes', 'BCAT1', 'BCAT1', 'α-ketoglutarate substrate', 'glioma cell lines', 'immortalized human astrocytes', 'IDH1', 'BCAT1', 'glioma cell', 'glutamate', 'BCAT1', 'BCAT1', 'BCAA']}], 'authors': 'Yvon, Mireille; Thirouin, Sylvie; Rijnen, Liesbeth; Fromentier, Didier; Gripon, Jean Claude', 'DOI': '10.1152/physrev.00047.2011', 'journal': 'Physiological Reviews ', 'title': 'An aminotransferase from Lactococcus lactis initiates conversion of amino acids to cheese flavor compounds'}, {'document': ['Novel enzyme activities and chemoenzymic reaction concepts have considerably expanded the biocatalytic toolbox for chiral amine synthesis.  Creating new activities or extending the scope of existing enzymes by protein engineering is a common trend in biocatalysis and in chiral amine synthesis specifically.  For instance, an amine dehydrogenase that allows for the direct asym. amination of ketones with ammonia was created by mutagenesis of an L-amino acid dehydrogenase.  Another trend in chiral amine chem. is the development of strategies allowing for the synthesis of secondary amines.  For example the smart choice of substrates for amine transaminases provided access to secondary amines by chemoenzymic reactions.  Furthermore novel biocatalysts for the synthesis of secondary amines such as imine reductases and Pictet-Spenglerases have been identified and applied.  Recent examples showed that the biocatalytic amine synthesis is emerging from simple model reactions towards industrial scale prepn. of pharmaceutical relevant substances, for instance, as shown in the synthesis of a Janus kinase 2 inhibitor using an amine transaminase.  A comparison of important process parameters such as turnover no. and space-time yield demonstrates that biocatalytic strategies for asym. reductive amination are maturing and can already compete with established chem. methods.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Novel enzyme activities', 'chiral amine synthesis', 'Creating new activities or extending the scope of existing', 'chiral amine chem', 'smart choice of substrates', 'synthesis of a Janus kinase 2 inhibitor', 'comparison of important process parameters'], 'process': ['chemoenzymic reaction concepts', 'protein engineering', 'chiral amine synthesis', 'amine dehydrogenase', 'mutagenesis of an', 'synthesis of secondary amines', 'amine transaminases', 'chemoenzymic reactions', 'synthesis of secondary amines', 'biocatalytic amine synthesis', 'simple model reactions', 'biocatalytic strategies', 'reductive amination', 'chem. methods'], 'material': ['enzymes', 'biocatalysis', 'ammonia', 'L-amino acid dehydrogenase', 'secondary amines', 'biocatalysts', 'imine reductases', 'Pictet-Spenglerases have', 'industrial scale prepn', 'pharmaceutical relevant substances', 'amine transaminase']}], 'authors': 'Harper A E; Miller R H; Block K P', 'DOI': '10.1128/aem.63.2.414-419.1997', 'journal': 'Applied and Environmental Microbiology ', 'title': 'Branched-chain amino acid metabolism'}, {'document': ['Leucine is recognized as a nutrient signal; however, the long-term in vivo consequences of leucine signaling and the role of branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism in this signaling remain unclear.  To investigate these questions, we disrupted the BCATm gene, which encodes the enzyme catalyzing the first step in peripheral BCAA metabolism.  BCATm(-/-) mice exhibited elevated plasma BCAAs and decreased adiposity and body weight, despite eating more food, along with increased energy expenditure, remarkable improvements in glucose and insulin tolerance, and protection from diet-induced obesity.  The increased energy expenditure did not seem to be due to altered locomotor activity, uncoupling proteins, sympathetic activity, or thyroid hormones but was strongly associated with food consumption and an active futile cycle of increased protein degradation and synthesis.  These observations suggest that elevated BCAAs and/or loss of BCAA catabolism in peripheral tissues play an important role in regulating insulin sensitivity and energy expenditure.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['disrupted the BCATm gene', 'increased protein degradation and synthesis', 'regulating insulin sensitivity and energy expenditure'], 'process': ['leucine signaling', 'peripheral BCAA metabolism', 'increased energy expenditure', 'locomotor activity', 'sympathetic activity', 'food consumption', 'elevated BCAAs'], 'material': ['Leucine', 'role of branched-chain amino acid', 'BCAA', 'enzyme', 'BCATm(-/-) mice', 'plasma BCAAs', 'adiposity', 'food', 'uncoupling proteins', 'thyroid hormones', 'BCAA']}], 'authors': 'Savile Christopher K; Janey Jacob M; Mundorff Emily C; Moore Jeffrey C; Tam Sarena; Jarvis William R; Colbeck Jeffrey C; Krebber Anke; Fleitz Fred J; Brands Jos; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Annual review of nutrition ', 'title': 'Biocatalytic asymmetric synthesis of chiral amines from ketones applied to sitagliptin manufacture'}, {'document': ['S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet, also known as SAM and SAMe) is the principal biological methyl donor synthesized in all mammalian cells but most abundantly in the liver.  Biosynthesis of AdoMet requires the enzyme methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT).  In mammals, two genes, MAT1A that is largely expressed by normal liver and MAT2A that is expressed by all extrahepatic tissues, encode MAT.  Patients with chronic liver disease have reduced MAT activity and AdoMet levels.  Mice lacking Mat1a have reduced hepatic AdoMet levels and develop oxidative stress, steatohepatitis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).  In these mice, several signaling pathways are abnormal that can contribute to HCC formation.  However, injury and HCC also occur if hepatic AdoMet level is excessive chronically.  This can result from inactive mutation of the enzyme glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT).  Children with GNMT mutation have elevated liver transaminases, and Gnmt knockout mice develop liver injury, fibrosis, and HCC.  Thus a normal hepatic AdoMet level is necessary to maintain liver health and prevent injury and HCC.  AdoMet is effective in cholestasis of pregnancy, and its role in other human liver diseases remains to be better defined.  In experimental models, it is effective as a chemopreventive agent in HCC and perhaps other forms of cancer as well.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['maintain liver health'], 'process': ['Biosynthesis of AdoMet', 'methionine adenosyltransferase', 'oxidative stress', 'hepatocellular carcinoma', 'signaling pathways', 'injury', 'HCC', 'inactive mutation of the enzyme', 'glycine N-methyltransferase', 'liver injury', 'fibrosis', 'HCC', 'prevent injury', 'HCC', 'experimental models'], 'material': ['S-adenosylmethionine', 'AdoMet', 'SAM', 'SAMe', 'biological methyl donor', 'MAT', 'two genes', 'MAT1A', 'MAT2A', 'MAT', 'Patients with chronic liver disease', 'MAT', 'AdoMet', 'Mice lacking Mat1a', 'AdoMet', 'steatohepatitis', 'HCC', 'HCC', 'hepatic AdoMet', 'GNMT', 'Children with GNMT', 'elevated liver transaminases', 'Gnmt knockout mice', 'hepatic AdoMet', 'AdoMet', 'chemopreventive agent', 'HCC']}], 'authors': 'Tonjes Martje; Barbus Sebastian; Wang Wei; Schlotter Magdalena; Pleier Sabrina V; Bai Alfa H C; Weibrecht Irene; Hovestadt Volker; Sturm Dominik; Witt Hendrik; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Science ', 'title': 'BCAT1 promotes cell proliferation through amino acid catabolism in gliomas carrying wild-type IDH1'}, {'document': ['Purpose: Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is an antibody-drug conjugate comprising trastuzumab and DM1, a microtubule polymn. inhibitor, covalently bound via a stable thioether linker.  To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of T-DM1 in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-pos. metastatic breast cancer, data from four studies (TDM3569g, TDM4258g, TDM4374g, and TDM4688g) of single-agent T-DM1 administered at 3.6 mg/kg every 3 wk (q3w) were assessed in aggregate.  Methods: Multiple analytes-T-DM1, total trastuzumab (TT), DM1, and key metabolites-were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays or liq. chromatog. tandem mass spectrometry.  PK parameters of T-DM1, TT, and DM1 exposure were calcd. using std. noncompartmental approaches and correlated to efficacy (objective response rate) and safety (platelet counts, hepatic transaminase concns.).  Immunogenicity was evaluated by measuring anti-therapeutic antibodies (ATA) to T-DM1 after repeated dosing using validated bridging antibody electrochemiluminescence or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays.  Results: PK parameters for T-DM1, TT, and DM1 were consistent across studies at cycle 1 and steady state.  T-DM1 PK was not affected by residual trastuzumab from prior therapy or circulating extracellular domain of HER2.  No significant correlations were obsd. between T-DM1 exposure and efficacy, thrombocytopenia, or increased concns. of transaminases.  Across the studies, ATA formation was detected in 4.5% (13/286) of evaluable patients receiving T-DM1 q3w.  Conclusions The PK profile of single-agent T-DM1 (3.6 mg/kg q3w) is predictable, well characterized, and unaffected by circulating levels of HER2 extracellular domain or residual trastuzumab.  T-DM1 exposure does not correlate with clin. responses or key adverse events.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of T-DM1', 'objective response rate', 'clin. responses'], 'process': ['enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays', 'std. noncompartmental approaches', 'efficacy', 'safety', 'Immunogenicity', 'dosing', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays', 'TT', 'efficacy', 'thrombocytopenia', 'ATA formation', 'PK profile'], 'material': ['Trastuzumab', 'emtansine', 'T-DM1', 'antibody-drug conjugate', 'trastuzumab', 'DM1', 'a microtubule polymn. inhibitor', 'stable thioether linker', 'human epidermal growth factor receptor 2', 'TDM3569', 'TDM4258', 'TDM4374', 'TDM4688', 'single-agent T-DM1', 'Multiple analytes', 'T-DM1', 'total trastuzumab', 'TT', 'DM1', 'key metabolites', 'liq. chromatog. tandem mass spectrometry', 'PK parameters', 'TT', 'hepatic transaminase concns', 'anti-therapeutic antibodies', 'ATA', 'T-DM1', 'validated bridging antibody electrochemiluminescence', 'PK parameters', 'trastuzumab', 'circulating extracellular domain of HER2', 'increased concns.', 'T-DM1', 'single-agent T-DM1', 'HER2 extracellular', 'trastuzumab', 'T-DM1']}], 'authors': 'Kohls, Hannes; Steffen-Munsberg, Fabian; Hoehne, Matthias', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Nature medicine ', 'title': 'Recent achievements in developing the biocatalytic toolbox for chiral amine synthesis'}, {'document': ['The three branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) are the most hydrophobic of the amino acids and play crucial roles in determining the structures of globular proteins as well as the interaction of the transmembrane domains of membranous proteins with phospholipid bilayers.  However, the three BCAAs do not behave identically.  In terms of protein secondary structure, valine and isoleucine exhibit a definite preference for the beta-structure, whereas leucine has a higher preference for the alpha-helix.  Although mutation of one BCAA to another is commonly regarded as conservative, there are well-documented examples of such substitutions that have a significant effect on protein function.  The occurrence of BCAA in nature is, therefore, attributable to their primary role in protein structure, not to their secondary metabolic roles.  These functions are important for almost all proteins; therefore, BCAA commonly account for approximately 20-25% of most dietary proteins.  Dietary BCAA largely escape first-pass splanchnic metabolism.  The first steps in their catabolism are common to all three, involving the BCAA aminotransferase (BCAT) and branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKD).  Their further metabolism employs distinct pathways to different end-products (glucose and/or ketone bodies).  However, the fact that the flux-generating step for the catabolism of the three BCAAs occurs at one of the common steps indicates that the production of these downstream products are not individually regulated and, hence, may not play important individual roles.  The catabolism of the BCAAs is highly regulated by both allosteric and covalent mechanisms.  BCKD is inhibited by phosphorylation and activated by dephosphorylation.  Allosteric inhibition of the kinase by the branched-chain keto acids (BCKA) (particularly by alpha-ketoisocaproate) serves both as a mechanism for promoting the catabolism of excess quantities of these amino acids as well as for conserving low concentrations of these dietary essential amino acids.  Cytosolic and mitochondrial isoenzymes of BCAT have been identified.  They are thought to play an important role in brain neurotransmitter metabolism.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['protein secondary structure', 'protein function', 'protein structure', 'brain neurotransmitter metabolism'], 'process': ['mutation of one BCAA', 'substitutions', 'first-pass splanchnic metabolism', 'catabolism', 'metabolism', 'flux-generating step', 'catabolism of the three BCAAs', 'production of these downstream products', 'catabolism', 'allosteric and covalent mechanisms', 'phosphorylation', 'dephosphorylation', 'Allosteric inhibition'], 'material': ['branched-chain amino acids', 'BCAAs', 'globular proteins', 'membranous proteins', 'phospholipid bilayers', 'BCAAs', 'valine', 'isoleucine', 'leucine', 'alpha-helix', 'BCAA', 'proteins', 'BCAA', 'dietary proteins', 'Dietary BCAA', 'BCAA aminotransferase', 'BCAT', 'branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase', 'BCKD', 'glucose', 'ketone bodies', 'BCAAs', 'BCKD', 'kinase', 'branched-chain keto', 'BCKA', 'alpha-ketoisocaproate', 'these amino acids', 'dietary essential amino acids', 'Cytosolic and mitochondrial isoenzymes', 'BCAT']}], 'authors': 'She Pengxiang; Reid Tanya M; Bronson Sarah K; Vary Thomas C; Hajnal Andras; Lynch Christopher J; Hutson Susan M', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.cbpa.2014.02.021', 'journal': 'Current Opinion in Chemical Biology ', 'title': 'Disruption of BCATm in mice leads to increased energy expenditure associated with the activation of a futile protein turnover cycle'}, {'document': ['A review.  New methods continue to be developed for the dynamic kinetic resoln. (DKR) and deracemization of racemic chiral compds., in particular alcs., amines, and amino acids.  Many of the DKR processes involve the combination of an enantioselective enzyme, often a lipase or protease, with a metal racemization catalyst.  A greater range of Ru-based racemization catalysts is now available with some showing good activity for the racemization of amines that are more difficult to epimerize than the corresponding alcs.  In terms of deracemization processes, further improvements have been achieved with the deracemization of alcs., using combinations of stereocomplementary ketoreductases, and addnl. transaminases have been applied to the deracemization of racemic amines.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['dynamic kinetic resoln', 'deracemization of racemic chiral compds', 'deracemization of racemic amines'], 'process': ['DKR', 'DKR processes', 'deracemization processes', 'deracemization of alcs'], 'material': ['alcs', 'amines', 'amino acids', 'enantioselective enzyme', 'lipase', 'protease', 'metal racemization catalyst', 'Ru-based racemization catalysts', 'amines', 'alcs', 'stereocomplementary ketoreductases', 'addnl']}], 'authors': 'Lu Shelly C; Mato Jose M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cell metabolism ', 'title': 'S-adenosylmethionine in liver health, injury, and cancer'}, {'document': ['Statin monotherapy is generally well tolerated, with a low frequency of adverse events.  The most important adverse effects associated with statins are myopathy and an asymptomatic increase in hepatic transaminases, both of which occur infrequently.  Because statins are prescribed on a long-term basis, however, possible interactions with other drugs deserve particular attention, as many patients will typically receive pharmacological therapy for concomitant conditions during the course of statin treatment.  This review summarizes the pharmacokinetic properties of statins and emphasizes their clinically relevant drug interactions.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['possible interactions', 'summarizes the pharmacokinetic properties', 'clinically relevant drug interactions'], 'process': ['Statin monotherapy', 'myopathy', 'pharmacological therapy', 'statin treatment'], 'material': ['statins', 'hepatic transaminases', 'statins', 'statins']}], 'authors': 'Girish, Sandhya; Gupta, Manish; Wang, Bei; Lu, Dan; Krop, Ian E.; Vogel, Charles L.; Burris, Howard A., III; LoRusso, Patricia M.; Yi, Joo-Hee; Saad, Ola; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Physiological reviews ', 'title': 'Clinical pharmacology of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1): an antibody-drug conjugate in development for the treatment of HER2-positive cancer'}, {'document': ['A review.  Chiral amines in enantiopure forms are important chem. building blocks, which are most well recognized in the pharmaceutical industries for imparting desirable biol. activity to chem. entities.  A no. of synthetic strategies to produce chiral amines via biocatalytic as well as chem. transformation have been developed.  Recently, ω-transaminase (ω-TA) has attracted growing attention as a promising catalyst which provides an environment-friendly access to prodn. of chiral amines with exquisite stereoselectivity and excellent catalytic turnover.  To obtain enantiopure amines using ω-TAs, either kinetic resoln. of racemic amines or asym. amination of achiral ketones is employed.  The latter is usually preferred because of twofold higher yield and no requirement of conversion of a ketone product back to racemic amine.  However, the choice of a prodn. process depends on several factors such as reaction equil., substrate reactivity, enzyme inhibition, and com. availability of substrates.  This review summarizes the biochem. features of ω-TA, including reaction chem., substrate specificity, and active site structure, and then introduces recent advances in expanding the scope of ω-TA reaction by protein engineering and public database searching.  We also address crucial factors to be considered for the development of efficient ω-TA processes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['produce chiral amines', 'biochem. features of', 'reaction chem', 'substrate specificity', 'active site structure'], 'process': ['chem. transformation', 'catalytic turnover', 'kinetic resoln', 'asym. amination of achiral ketones', 'conversion of a ketone product', 'prodn. process', 'substrate reactivity', 'enzyme inhibition', 'TA reaction', 'protein engineering', 'public database searching', 'ω-TA processes'], 'material': ['Chiral amines', 'chem. building blocks', 'ω-transaminase', 'ω-TA', 'catalyst', 'prodn', 'chiral amines', 'ω-TAs', 'racemic amines', 'racemic amine', 'ω-TA']}], 'authors': 'Brosnan John T; Brosnan Margaret E', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00280-011-1817-3', 'journal': 'Cancer Chemotherapy and Pharmacology ', 'title': 'Branched-chain amino acids: enzyme and substrate regulation'}, {'document': ['Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is emerging as the most common chronic liver condition in the Western world.  It is associated with insulin resistance and frequently occurs with features of the metabolic syndrome.  Disease presentation ranges from asymptomatic elevated liver enzyme levels to cirrhosis with complications of liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma.  Current treatment recommendations are limited to weight loss and exercise, although several promising medications are on the horizon.  In this article we discuss the etiology, pathogenesis and diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease as well as approaches to its management.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['discuss the etiology, pathogenesis and diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease', 'approaches to its management'], 'process': ['Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease', 'insulin resistance', 'weight loss'], 'material': ['metabolic syndrome', 'cirrhosis']}], 'authors': 'Turner, Nicholas J.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of nutrition ', 'title': 'Deracemization methods'}, {'document': ['Acrylamide is neurotoxic to exptl. animals and humans.  Also, it has mutagenic and carcinogenic effects.  The present study was carried out to investigate the effects of different doses of acrylamide on some enzyme activities and lipid peroxidn. in male rats.  Animals were assigned at random to one of the following treatments: group 1 served as control, while groups 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 were treated with 0.5, 5, 25, 50, 250, and 500 μg/kg body wt. of acrylamide, resp., in drinking water for 10 wk.  Acrylamide significantly decreased plasma protein levels and the activity of creatine kinase, while increased plasma phosphatases.  The activities of transaminases and phosphatases were significantly decreased in liver and testes, while lactate dehydrogenase did not change compared to the control group.  Plasma and brain acetylcholinesterase activity was significantly decreased.  The concn. of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, and the activities of glutathione S-transferase and superoxide dismutase in plasma, liver, testes, brain, and kidney were increased in acrylamide-treated rats.  On the other hand, results obtained showed that acrylamide significantly reduced the content of sulfhydryl groups and protein in different tissues.  The present results showed that different doses of acrylamide exerted deterioration effects on enzyme activities and lipid peroxidn. in a dose-dependent manner.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['increased plasma phosphatases'], 'process': ['mutagenic and carcinogenic effects', 'lipid peroxidn', 'decreased plasma protein levels', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'Plasma and brain acetylcholinesterase activity', 'concn. of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'reduced the content of sulfhydryl groups and protein', 'different doses', 'lipid peroxidn'], 'material': ['Acrylamide', 'acrylamide', 'male rats', 'acrylamide', 'drinking water', 'Acrylamide', 'creatine kinase', 'liver', 'superoxide', 'acrylamide-treated rats', 'acrylamide', 'acrylamide']}], 'authors': 'Bellosta Stefano; Paoletti Rodolfo; Corsini Alberto', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.cbpa.2009.11.027', 'journal': 'Current Opinion in Chemical Biology ', 'title': 'Safety of statins: focus on clinical pharmacokinetics and drug interactions'}, {'document': ['A review.  Biocatalysis has established itself as a scalable and green technol. for the prodn. of a broad range of pharmaceutical APIs and intermediates.  The no. and scope of biocatalysts employed on large scale to deliver cost-advantaged and quality-advantaged processes to important substances continue to expand.  This review discusses the recent developments in the field, including examples of processes leveraging hydrolases, reductases, transaminases, oxidases and other biocatalysts, focused on the prepn. of important investigational and launched therapeutics.  Biocatalysts recently discovered, and in some cases rediscovered, for the interesting chem. they enable are likely to further substantiate the expansion of the biocatalysis field.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn.'], 'process': ['Biocatalysis has established itself as a', 'processes leveraging hydrolases'], 'material': ['pharmaceutical APIs', 'biocatalysts', 'reductases', 'transaminases', 'oxidases', 'biocatalysts', 'Biocatalysts', 'biocatalysis']}], 'authors': 'Malik, M. Shaheer; Park, Eul-Soo; Shin, Jong-Shik', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Circulation ', 'title': 'Features and technical applications of ω-transaminases'}, {'document': ['Dysregulation of insulin action is most often considered in the context of impaired glucose homeostasis, with the defining feature of diabetes mellitus being elevated blood glucose concentration.  Complications arising from the hyperglycemia accompanying frank diabetes are well known and epidemiological studies point to higher risk toward development of metabolic disease in persons with impaired glucose tolerance.  Although the central role of proper blood sugar control in maintaining metabolic health is well established, recent developments have begun to shed light on associations between compromised insulin action [obesity, prediabetes, and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)] and altered intermediary metabolism of fats and amino acids.  For amino acids, changes in blood concentrations of select essential amino acids and their derivatives, in particular BCAA, sulfur amino acids, tyrosine, and phenylalanine, are apparent with obesity and insulin resistance, often before the onset of clinically diagnosed T2DM.  This review provides an overview of these changes and places recent observations from metabolomics research into the context of historical reports in the areas of biochemistry and nutritional biology.  Based on this synthesis, a model is proposed that links the FFA-rich environment of obesity/insulin resistance and T2DM with diminution of BCAA catabolic enzyme activity, changes in methionine oxidation and cysteine/cystine generation, and tissue redox balance (NADH/NAD+).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biochemistry and nutritional biology'], 'process': ['Dysregulation of insulin action', 'impaired glucose homeostasis', 'elevated blood glucose concentration', 'compromised insulin action', 'obesity', 'prediabetes', 'type 2 diabetes', 'T2DM', 'altered intermediary metabolism of fats and amino acids', 'changes in blood concentrations', 'obesity', 'insulin resistance', 'metabolomics research', 'FFA-rich environment', 'obesity', 'T2DM', 'diminution of BCAA catabolic enzyme', 'changes in methionine oxidation', 'cysteine/cystine generation', 'tissue redox balance'], 'material': ['metabolic disease', 'amino', 'select essential amino acids', 'BCAA', 'sulfur amino acids', 'tyrosine', 'phenylalanine', 'NADH', 'NAD+']}], 'authors': 'Adams Leon A; Angulo Paul; Lindor Keith D', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00253-012-4103-3', 'journal': 'Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology ', 'title': 'Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease'}, {'document': ['Studies that evaluate the risk of hepatotoxicity from statins in hyperlipidemic subjects with elevated baseline serum transaminases are lacking.  We conducted a study to test the hypothesis that patients with elevated baseline liver enzymes have higher risk of statin hepatotoxicity.  Our study consisted of the following 3 cohorts of patients seen between Jan. 1, 1998 and June 31, 2002: Cohort 1: 342 hyperlipidemic patients with elevated baseline enzymes (AST >40 IU/L or ALT >35 IU/L) who were prescribed a statin; cohort 2: 1437 hyperlipidemic patients with normal transaminases who were prescribed a statin; and cohort 3: 2245 patients with elevated liver enzymes but who were not prescribed a statin.  The effect of statins on liver biochemistries was assessed over a 6-mo period after statins were prescribed.  Elevations in liver biochemistries during follow-up were categorized into mild-moderate or severe based on predefined criteria.  The incidence of mild-moderate elevations and severe elevations in liver biochemistries in cohort 1 were 4.7% and 0.6%, resp.  Compared with cohort 1, individuals in cohort 2 had lower incidence of mild-moderate elevations (1.9%, P = 0.002) but not severe elevations (0.2%, P = 0.2).  However, between cohorts 1 and 3, there were no differences in the incidence of mild-moderate elevations (4.7% vs. 6.4%, resp., P = 0.2) or severe elevations (0.6% vs. 0.4%, resp., P = 0.6).  Statin discontinuation during the follow-up was similar between cohorts 1 and 2 (11.1% vs. 10.7%, resp., P = 0.8).  These data suggest that individuals with elevated baseline liver enzymes do not have higher risk for hepatotoxicity from statins.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['test the hypothesis that patients with elevated baseline liver enzymes'], 'process': ['statin hepatotoxicity', 'AST', 'ALT', 'Elevations in liver biochemistries', 'elevations', 'severe elevations', 'Statin discontinuation'], 'material': ['342 hyperlipidemic patients', 'statin', '1437 hyperlipidemic patients', 'statin', '2245 patients with elevated liver enzymes', 'statin', 'statins', 'liver biochemistries', 'statins', 'liver biochemistries', 'individuals in cohort 2', 'mild-moderate elevations', 'mild-moderate elevations']}], 'authors': 'Yousef, M. I.; El-Demerdash, F. M.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': "CMAJ : Canadian Medical Association journal = journal de l'Association medicale canadienne ", 'title': 'Acrylamide-induced oxidative stress and biochemical perturbations in rats'}, {'document': ['UNLABELLED:  Glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT) is the main enzyme responsible for catabolism of excess hepatic S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe).  GNMT is absent in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), messenger RNA (mRNA) levels are significantly lower in livers of patients at risk of developing HCC, and GNMT has been proposed to be a tumor-susceptibility gene for liver cancer.  The identification of several children with liver disease as having mutations of the GNMT gene further suggests that this enzyme plays an important role in liver function.  In the current study we studied development of liver pathologies including HCC in GNMT-knockout (GNMT-KO) mice.  GNMT-KO mice have elevated serum aminotransferase, methionine, and SAMe levels and develop liver steatosis, fibrosis, and HCC.  We found that activation of the Ras and Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathways was increased in liver tumors from GNMT-KO mice coincidently with the suppression of the Ras inhibitors Ras-association domain family/tumor suppressor (RASSF) 1 and 4 and the JAK/STAT inhibitors suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1-3 and cytokine-inducible SH2-protein.  Finally, we found that methylation of RASSF1 and SOCS2 promoters and the binding of trimethylated lysine 27 in histone 3 to these 2 genes was increased in HCC from GNMT-KO mice.  CONCLUSION:  These data demonstrate that loss of GNMT induces aberrant methylation of DNA and histones, resulting in epigenetic modulation of critical carcinogenic pathways in mice.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['liver function', 'development of liver pathologies', 'HCC'], 'process': ['Glycine N-methyltransferase', 'GNMT', 'catabolism of excess hepatic S-adenosylmethionine', 'hepatocellular carcinoma', 'fibrosis', 'activation of the', 'Ras and Janus kinase', 'STAT', 'suppression of the', 'Ras inhibitors', 'Ras-association domain family/tumor suppressor', 'RASSF', 'suppressor of cytokine signaling', 'SOCS', 'methylation', 'binding of trimethylated lysine 27 in histone 3 to these 2 genes', 'aberrant methylation of DNA and histones', 'epigenetic modulation of critical carcinogenic pathways'], 'material': ['SAMe', 'GNMT', 'HCC', 'messenger RNA', 'mRNA', 'HCC', 'GNMT', 'GNMT gene', 'GNMT-knockout', 'GNMT-KO', 'GNMT-KO mice', 'elevated serum aminotransferase', 'HCC', 'liver tumors', 'GNMT-KO mice', 'JAK/STAT inhibitors', 'cytokine-inducible SH2-protein', 'HCC', 'GNMT', 'GNMT']}], 'authors': 'Huisman, Gjalt W.; Collier, Steven J.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.tox.2005.11.008', 'journal': 'Toxicology ', 'title': 'On the development of new biocatalytic processes for practical pharmaceutical synthesis'}, {'document': ['The use of transaminases to access pharmaceutically relevant chiral amines is an attractive alternative to transition-metal-catalyzed asym. chem. synthesis.  However, one major challenge is their limited substrate scope.  Here we report the creation of highly active and stereoselective transaminases starting from fold class I.  The transaminases were developed by extensive protein engineering followed by optimization of the identified motif.  The resulting enzymes exhibited up to 8,900-fold higher activity than the starting scaffold and are highly stereoselective (up to >99.9% enantiomeric excess) in the asym. synthesis of a set of chiral amines bearing bulky substituents.  These enzymes should therefore be suitable for use in the synthesis of a wide array of potential intermediates for pharmaceuticals.  We also show that the motif can be engineered into other protein scaffolds with sequence identities as low as 70%, and as such should have a broad impact in the field of biocatalytic synthesis and enzyme engineering.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['access pharmaceutically relevant chiral amines', 'limited substrate scope', 'creation of highly active and stereoselective transaminases', 'synthesis of a wide array of potential intermediates'], 'process': ['transition-metal-catalyzed', 'asym. chem. synthesis', 'extensive protein engineering', 'optimization of the identified motif', 'synthesis of a set of chiral amines', 'biocatalytic synthesis', 'enzyme engineering'], 'material': ['transaminases', 'transaminases', 'enzymes', 'starting scaffold', 'enzymes', 'pharmaceuticals', 'protein scaffolds']}], 'authors': 'Adams Sean H', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.cbpa.2013.01.017', 'journal': 'Current Opinion in Chemical Biology ', 'title': 'Emerging perspectives on essential amino acid metabolism in obesity and the insulin-resistant state'}, {'document': ['A review.  In this review we analyze structure/sequence-function relationships for the superfamily of PLP-dependent enzymes with special emphasis on class III transaminases.  Amine transaminases are highly important for applications in biocatalysis in the synthesis of chiral amines.  In addn., other enzyme activities such as racemases or decarboxylases are also discussed.  The substrate scope and the ability to accept chem. different types of substrates are shown to be reflected in conserved patterns of amino acids around the active site.  These findings are condensed in a sequence-function matrix, which facilitates annotation and identification of biocatalytically relevant enzymes and protein engineering thereof.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['substrate scope', 'different types of substrates', 'annotation and identification of biocatalytically relevant enzymes'], 'process': ['structure/sequence-function relationships', 'Amine transaminases', 'biocatalysis in the synthesis of chiral amines', 'enzyme activities', 'accept', 'sequence-function matrix', 'protein engineering'], 'material': ['superfamily of PLP-dependent enzymes', 'class III transaminases', 'racemases', 'decarboxylases']}], 'authors': 'Chalasani, Naga; Aljadhey, Hisham; Kesterson, Joe; Murray, Michael D.; Hall, Stephen D.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Advances in nutrition ', 'title': 'Patients with elevated liver enzymes are not at higher risk for statin hepatotoxicity'}, {'document': ["We report studies of a Croatian boy, a proven case of human S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) hydrolase deficiency.  Psychomotor development was slow until his fifth month; thereafter, virtually absent until treatment was started.  He had marked hypotonia with elevated serum creatine kinase and transaminases, prolonged prothrombin time and low albumin.  Electron microscopy of muscle showed numerous abnormal myelin figures; liver biopsy showed mild hepatitis with sparse rough endoplasmic reticulum.  Brain MRI at 12.7 mo revealed white matter atrophy and abnormally slow myelination.  Hypermethioninemia was present in the initial metabolic study at age 8 mo, and persisted (up to 784 μM) without tyrosine elevation.  Plasma total homocysteine was very slightly elevated for an infant to 14.5-15.9 μM.  In plasma, S-adenosylmethionine was 30-fold and AdoHcy 150-fold elevated.  Activity of AdoHcy hydrolase was ≈3% of control in liver and was 5-10% of the control values in red blood cells and cultured fibroblasts.  We found no evidence of a sol. inhibitor of the enzyme in exts. of the patient's cultured fibroblasts.  Addnl. pretreatment abnormalities in plasma included low concns. of phosphatidylcholine and choline, with elevations of guanidinoacetate, betaine, dimethylglycine, and cystathionine.  Leukocyte DNA was hypermethylated.  Gene anal. revealed two mutations in exon 4: a maternally derived stop codon, and a paternally derived missense mutation.  We discuss reasons for biochem. abnormalities and pathophysiol. aspects of AdoHcy hydrolase deficiency."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['a proven case of', 'Addnl. pretreatment abnormalities', 'discuss reasons for biochem. abnormalities', 'pathophysiol. aspects'], 'process': ['human S-adenosylhomocysteine', 'AdoHcy', 'hydrolase deficiency', 'marked hypotonia', 'liver biopsy', 'mild hepatitis', 'Brain MRI', 'Hypermethioninemia', 'metabolic study', 'tyrosine elevation', 'sol. inhibitor of the enzyme', 'Gene anal', 'maternally derived stop codon', 'AdoHcy hydrolase deficiency'], 'material': ['low albumin', 'Electron microscopy', 'abnormal myelin figures', 'sparse rough endoplasmic reticulum', 'white matter', 'Plasma total homocysteine', 'plasma', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'AdoHcy', 'AdoHcy hydrolase', 'liver', 'red blood cells', 'cultured fibroblasts', "patient's cultured fibroblasts", 'plasma', 'low concns.', 'phosphatidylcholine', 'choline', 'guanidinoacetate', 'betaine', 'dimethylglycine', 'cystathionine', 'Leukocyte DNA']}], 'authors': 'Veech R L; Eggleston L V; Krebs H A', 'DOI': '10.1053/j.gastro.2004.02.015', 'journal': 'Gastroenterology ', 'title': 'The redox state of free nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate in the cytoplasm of rat liver'}, {'document': ['The primary aim of this study was to select a set of relevant biomarkers in feral eel for the biol. assessment of inland water pollution.  A suite of biochem. parameters in eel (hepatic biotransformation enzymes and cofactors, antioxidant enzymes, PAH metabolites, DNA adducts, serum transaminases) was measured in order to det. their response to xenobiotic compds. in the environment.  The results of the analyses of org. trace pollutants in sediments and eel from six Amsterdam freshwater sites with different pollution levels have been discussed in the first part of this paper (Van der Oost, R., Opperhuizen, A., Satumalay, K., Heida, H. and Vermeulen, N.P.E., 1996a.  The main conclusions drawn from the trends found for the levels and activities of biochem. parameters in eel were the following: the phase I biotransformation enzymes in eel liver appeared to be the most sensitive to environmental xenobiotics.  Cytochrome b5 (Cyt b5), cytochrome P 450 1A (CYP1A), ethoxyresurofin-O-deethylase (EROD) and EROD turnover (EROD/P 450) in eel liver showed significant responses to contamination, and can therefore be used as biomarkers.  Levels of a CYP3A-like protein were significantly elevated in eel from three moderately polluted sites, but since this protein was not induced in eel from the most polluted site its relevance as a biomarker remains unclear.  Phase II enzymes and cofactors in eel liver were less susceptible to pollutants than phase I enzymes.  The activity of UDP glucuronyl transferase (UDPGT) in eel may, however, be a useful biomarker, while glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity and levels of oxidized glutathione (GSSG) were less sensitive.  The reduced glutathione (GSH) cofactor levels in eel liver are most probably not reliable as biomarkers.  Hepatic activities of antioxidant enzymes in eel did not show any response to pollution and are therefore not feasible as biomarkers.  The level of 1-hydroxypyrene (1-OH pyrene) in eel bile might be a useful biomarker to det. short-term PAH exposure.  The hepatic level of DNA adducts in eel liver seems to be a sensitive biomarker for exposure to (and possible effects of) mutagenic and carcinogenic xenobiotics.  In feral eel, serum transaminases are not usable as biomarkers of chronic intoxication.  The proposed set of the most relevant biomarkers for the assessment of inland water pollution with feral eel thus consists of the following six parameters: cyt b5, CYP1A, EROD, EROD/P 450, UDPGT and DNA adducts.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['select a set of relevant biomarkers', 'biol. assessment of inland water pollution', 'det. their response to xenobiotic compds. in the environment', 'proposed set of the most relevant biomarkers for the', 'assessment of inland water pollution'], 'process': ['biochem. parameters', 'pollution', '-deethylase', 'EROD', 'EROD turnover', 'EROD/P 450', 'contamination', 'UDP glucuronyl transferase', 'UDPGT', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'GST', 'Hepatic activities', 'pollution', 'short-term PAH exposure', 'hepatic level of DNA adducts', 'chronic intoxication', 'DNA adducts'], 'material': ['feral eel', 'eel', 'hepatic biotransformation enzymes', 'antioxidant enzymes', 'PAH metabolites', 'DNA adducts', 'serum transaminases', 'org. trace pollutants', 'sediments', 'eel', 'eel', 'phase I biotransformation enzymes', 'eel liver', 'environmental xenobiotics', 'Cytochrome', 'b5', 'Cyt', 'b5', 'cytochrome P 450', 'CYP1A', 'ethoxyresurofin', 'eel', 'CYP3A-like protein', 'eel', 'eel', 'Phase II enzymes', 'eel', 'phase I enzymes', 'eel', 'oxidized glutathione', 'GSSG', 'reduced glutathione', 'GSH', 'eel liver', 'eel', '1-hydroxypyrene', '1-OH pyrene', 'eel bile', 'eel', 'feral eel', 'serum transaminases', 'feral eel', 'cyt', 'b5', 'CYP1A', 'EROD', 'EROD/P 450', 'UDPGT']}], 'authors': 'Thompson E B; Tomkins G M; Curran J F', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': " The concentrations of the oxidized and reduced substrates of the ;malic' enzyme (EC 1.1.1.40) and isocitrate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.42) were measured in freeze-clamped rat livers.  By assuming that the reactants of these dehydrogenase systems are at equilibrium in the cytoplasm the [free NADP(+)]/[free NADPH] ratio was calculated.  The justification of the assumption is discussed. 2.  The values of this ratio obtained under different nutritional conditions (well-fed, 48hr.-starved, fed with a low-carbohydrate diet, fed with a high-sucrose diet) were all of the same order of magnitude although characteristic changes occurred on varying the diet.  The value of the ratio fell on starvation and on feeding with the low-carbohydrate diet and rose slightly on feeding with the high-sucrose diet. 3.  The mean values of the ratio were calculated to be between 0.001 and 0.015, which is about 100000 times lower than the values of the cytoplasmic [free NAD(+)]/[free NADH] ratio. 4.  The differences in the redox state of the two nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide couples can be explained on a simple physicochemical basis.  The differences are the result of equilibria that are determined by the equilibrium constants of a number of highly active readily reversible dehydrogenases and transaminases and the concentrations of the substrates and products of these enzymes. 5.  The decisive feature is the fact that the NAD and NADP couples share substrates.  This sharing provides a link between the redox states of the two couples. 6.  The application of the method of calculation to data published by Kraupp, Adler-Kastner, Niessner & Plank (1967), Goldberg, Passonneau & Lowry (1966) and Kauffman, Brown, Passonneau & Lowry (1968) shows that the redox states of the NAD and NADP couples in cardiac-muscle cytoplasm and in mouse-brain cytoplasm are of the same order as those in rat liver. 7.  The determination of the equilibrium constant at 38 degrees , pH7.0 and I 0.25 (required for the calculation of the [free NADP(+)]/[free NADPH] ratio), gave a value of 3.44x10(-2)m for the ;malic' enzyme (with CO(2) rather than HCO(3) (-) as the reactant) and a value of 1.98x10(-2)m(-1) for glutathione reductase."}, {'document': ['A review.  The use of immobilized enzymes is now a routine process for the manuf. of many industrial products in the pharmaceutical, chem. and food industry.  Some enzymes, such as lipases, are naturally robust and efficient, can be used for the prodn. of many different mols. and have a wide range of industrial applications thanks to their broad selectivity.  As an example, lipase from Candida antarctica (CalB) has been used by BASF to produce chiral compds., such as the herbicide Dimethenamide-P, which was previously made chem.  The use of the immobilized enzyme has provided significant advantages over a chem. process, such as the possibility to use equimolar concn. of substrates, obtain an enantiomeric excess > 99%, use relatively low temps. (< 60 °C) in org. solvent, obtain a single enantiomer instead of the racemate as in the chem. process and use a column configuration that allows dramatic increases in productivity.  This process would not have been possible without the use of an immobilized enzyme, since it runs in org. solvent [1].  Some more specific enzymes, like transaminases, have required protein engineering to become suitable for applications in prodn. of APIs (Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients) in conditions which are extreme for a wild type enzyme.  The process developed by Merck for sitagliptin manuf. is a good example of challenging enzyme engineering applied to API manuf.  The previous process of sitagliptin involved hydrogenation of enamine at high pressure using a rhodium-based chiral catalyst.  By developing an engineered transaminase, the enzymic process was able to convert 200 g/l of prositagliptin in the final product, with e.e. >99.5% and using an immobilized enzyme in the presence of DMSO as a cosolvent [2].  For all enzymes, the possibility to be immobilized and used in a heterogeneous form brings important industrial and environmental advantages, such as simplified downstream processing or continuous process operations.  Here, we present a series of large-scale applications of immobilized enzymes with benefits for the food, chem., pharmaceutical, cosmetics and medical device industries, some of which have been scarcely reported on previously.  In general, all enzymic reactions can benefit from the immobilization, however, the final choice to use them in immobilized form depends on the economic evaluation of costs assocd. with their use vs. benefits obtained in the process.  It can be concluded that the benefits are rather significant, since the use of immobilized enzymes in industry is increasing.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['manuf. of many industrial products', 'prodn.', 'produce chiral compds', 'obtain an enantiomeric excess', 'obtain a single enantiomer', 'prodn.', 'challenging enzyme engineering', 'simplified downstream processing', 'economic evaluation'], 'process': ['use of immobilized enzymes', 'chem. process', 'chem. process', 'column configuration', 'protein engineering', 'hydrogenation of enamine', 'engineered transaminase', 'enzymic process', 'continuous process operations', 'enzymic reactions', 'immobilization'], 'material': ['enzymes', 'lipases', 'lipase', 'CalB', 'herbicide Dimethenamide', 'immobilized enzyme', 'equimolar concn.', 'low temps.', 'org. solvent', 'immobilized enzyme', 'org. solvent', 'enzymes', 'transaminases', 'APIs', 'Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients', 'wild type enzyme', 'API manuf', 'sitagliptin', 'rhodium-based chiral catalyst', 'immobilized enzyme', 'DMSO', 'enzymes', 'immobilized enzymes', 'immobilized enzymes']}], 'authors': 'Martinez-Chantar M Luz; Vazquez-Chantada Mercedes; Ariz Usue; Martinez Nuria; Varela Marta; Luka Zigmund; Capdevila Antonieta; Rodriguez Juan; Aransay Ana M; Matthiesen Rune; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Induction of tyrosine alpha-ketoglutarate transaminase by steroid hormones in a newly established tissue culture cell line'}, {'document': ['Glutathione (GSH) plays several important roles in the protection of cells against oxidative damage, particularly following exposure to xenobiotics.  Ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA) is a potent depletor of GSH and also enhances tissue lipid peroxidn.  In this study, we show the effect of Fe-NTA treatment on hepatic GSH and some of the glutathione metabolizing enzymes, oxidant generation and liver damage.  The level of hepatic GSH and the activities of glutathione reductase, glutathione S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase, and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase all decrease following Fe-NTA administration.  In these parameters the max. decrease occurred at 12 h following Fe-NTA treatment.  In contrast, γ-glutamyl transpeptidase was increased at this time.  Not surprisingly, the increase in the activity of γ-glutamyl transpeptidase and decreases in GSH, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glutathione S-transferase were found to be dependent on the dose of Fe-NTA administered.  Fe-NTA administration also enhances the prodn. of H2O2 and increases hepatic lipid peroxidn.  Parallel to these changes, Fe-NTA enhances liver damage as evidenced by increases in serum transaminases.  Once again, the liver damage is dependent on the dose of Fe-NTA and is maximal at 12 h.  Pretreatment of animals with antioxidant, butylated hydroxy anisole (BHA), protects against Fe-NTA-mediated hepatotoxicity further supporting the involvement of oxidative stress in Fe-NTA-mediated hepatic damage.  In aggregate, our results indicate that FE-NTA administration eventuates in decreased hepatic GSH, a fall in the activities of glutathione metabolizing enzymes and excessive prodn. of oxidants, all of which are involved in the cascade of events leading to iron-mediated hepatic injury.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['protection of cells', 'prodn. of H2O2'], 'process': ['oxidative damage', 'enhances tissue lipid peroxidn', 'oxidant generation', 'liver damage', 'glutathione reductase', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'Fe-NTA administration', 'Fe-NTA treatment', 'increase in the activity', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'hepatic lipid peroxidn', 'enhances liver damage', 'liver damage', 'oxidative stress', 'hepatic damage', 'decreased hepatic GSH', 'iron-mediated hepatic injury'], 'material': ['Glutathione', 'GSH', 'Ferric nitrilotriacetate', 'Fe-NTA', 'GSH', 'Fe-NTA', 'GSH', 'glutathione metabolizing enzymes', 'hepatic GSH', 'glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase', 'γ-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'γ-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'GSH', 'glutathione reductase', 'glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase', 'Fe-NTA', 'Fe-NTA', 'Fe-NTA', 'serum transaminases', 'Fe-NTA', 'antioxidant', 'butylated hydroxy anisole', 'BHA', 'Fe', 'Fe', 'FE-NTA', 'glutathione metabolizing enzymes', 'excessive prodn', 'oxidants']}], 'authors': 'Pavlidis, Ioannis V.; Weiss, Martin S.; Genz, Maika; Spurr, Paul; Hanlon, Steven P.; Wirz, Beat; Iding, Hans; Bornscheuer, Uwe T.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'Loss of the glycine N-methyltransferase gene leads to steatosis and hepatocellular carcinoma in mice'}, {'document': ['Glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase (I) and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (II) activities were demonstrated in human serum, plasma, and whole-blood hemolyzates.  A method, employing quant. paper chromatography, is presented for their measurement by estg. the rate of glutamate formation.  The chem. properties of the enzyme in serum, including the variations in activity with changes in concn. of enzyme, substrate, and H ion, were similar to those found in transaminases present in animal tissues.  Freezing or lyophilizing the serum or storage at 0-5° up to 2 weeks caused no significant change in transaminase activity, but boiling destroyed it.  I and II activities were approx. equal in normal human blood.  I was approx. 2.7 times as active as II in hemolyzates.  Transaminase activity often becomes obvious in disease states.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['transaminase activity', 'I and II activities', 'Transaminase activity'], 'process': ['Glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase', 'glutamic-pyruvic transaminase', 'quant. paper chromatography', 'estg', 'glutamate formation', 'Freezing', 'lyophilizing', 'storage', 'boiling'], 'material': ['human serum', 'plasma', 'whole-blood hemolyzates', 'serum', 'enzyme', 'substrate', 'H ion', 'animal tissues', 'serum', 'normal human blood', 'I', 'hemolyzates']}], 'authors': 'Steffen-Munsberg, Fabian; Vickers, Clare; Kohls, Hannes; Land, Henrik; Mallin, Hendrik; Nobili, Alberto; Skalden, Lilly; van den Bergh, Tom; Joosten, Henk-Jan; Berglund, Per; et al', 'DOI': '10.1038/nchem.2578', 'journal': 'Nature Chemistry ', 'title': 'Identification of (S)-selective transaminases for the asymmetric synthesis of bulky chiral amines'}, {'document': ['A review.  Transaminases have attracted considerable interest in their use as biocatalysts for the synthesis of compds. contg. chiral amine units, which are widespread within the pharmaceutical, agrochem. and fine chem. industry.  Recent developments in enzyme- and process-engineering have expedited their use in asym. synthesis; however industrial applications are still hindered by a no. of factors, including equil. thermodn., product inhibition and poor substrate tolerance.  Detailed and comprehensive approaches to each of these challenges have been reported during the last two decades; the most representative enzyme screening, equil. engineering and immobilization techniques are reviewed herein.  Furthermore, we present a detailed look into the applications of transaminases for the synthesis of a variety of amine-contg. compds. and the integration of transaminases into multi-enzymic systems that allow access to a variety of highly complex products for the end user.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['synthesis of compds. contg. chiral amine units', 'industrial applications', 'equil. thermodn', 'applications of transaminases', 'synthesis of a variety of amine-contg. compds.'], 'process': ['enzyme- and process-engineering', 'asym. synthesis', 'product inhibition', 'poor substrate tolerance', 'enzyme screening', 'equil. engineering', 'immobilization techniques'], 'material': ['Transaminases', 'biocatalysts', 'pharmaceutical', 'transaminases', 'multi-enzymic systems', 'highly complex products']}], 'authors': 'Baric, Ivo; Fumic, Ksenija; Glenn, Byron; Cuk, Mario; Schulze, Andreas; Finkelstein, James D.; James, S. Jill; Mejaski-Bosnjak, Vlatka; Pazanin, Leo; Pogribny, Igor P.; et al', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.biotechadv.2014.12.012', 'journal': 'Biotechnology Advances ', 'title': 'Bioinformatic analysis of a PLP-dependent enzyme superfamily suitable for biocatalytic applications'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND & AIMS:  T cell-dependent liver injury involving endogenous tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha can be induced by either concanavalin A in naive mice or by activating anti-CD3 antibody or staphylococcal enterotoxin B in D-galactosamine-sensitized mice.  In this study, the role of interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) in these T-cell models was addressed.  METHODS:  Mice were pretreated with a neutralizing anti-mouse IFN-gamma antiserum before injection of T cell-activating agents.  Plasma cytokine and transaminase levels were determined.  Apoptotic cell death was assessed by hepatic DNA fragmentation.  RESULTS:  Anti-IFN-gamma antiserum significantly protected mice from concanavalin A-induced liver injury.  Circulating IFN-gamma was completely suppressed, and TNF was reduced by 50%.  Recombinant TNF-alpha administered to mice treated with concanavalin A and anti-IFN-gamma antiserum failed to initiate liver injury.  Similar results were obtained with recombinant IFN-gamma in concanavalin A-challenged mice under the condition of TNF neutralization.  Neither hepatic DNA fragmentation nor release of transaminases was inhibited by anti-IFN-gamma antiserum when liver injury was induced by staphylococcal enterotoxin B or anti-CD3 antibody in D-galactosamine-sensitized mice.  CONCLUSIONS:  Both TNF as well as IFN-gamma are critical mediators of liver injury in concanavalin A-treated mice, whereas hepatic DNA fragmentation and liver failure in the D-galactosamine models depend only on TNF.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['role of interferon gamma', 'Apoptotic cell death'], 'process': ['T cell-dependent liver injury', 'pretreated', 'hepatic DNA fragmentation', 'concanavalin A-induced liver injury', 'initiate liver injury', 'TNF neutralization', 'hepatic DNA fragmentation', 'release of transaminases', 'liver injury', 'liver injury', 'hepatic DNA fragmentation', 'liver failure'], 'material': ['concanavalin', 'activating anti-CD3 antibody', 'staphylococcal enterotoxin', 'D-galactosamine-sensitized mice', 'a neutralizing anti-mouse IFN-gamma antiserum', 'T cell-activating agents', 'Plasma cytokine', 'Anti-IFN-gamma antiserum', 'TNF', 'Recombinant TNF', 'concanavalin', 'anti-IFN-gamma antiserum', 'recombinant IFN', 'concanavalin A', 'anti-IFN-gamma antiserum', 'staphylococcal enterotoxin', 'anti-CD3 antibody', 'D-galactosamine-sensitized mice', 'TNF', 'IFN', 'concanavalin A', 'TNF']}], 'authors': 'van der Oost, Ron; Goksoyr, Anders; Celander, Malin; Heida, Henk; Vermeulen, Nico P. E.', 'DOI': '10.1073/pnas.0400658101', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase deficiency in a human: a genetic disorder of methionine metabolism'}, {'document': ['The objective was to investigate the risk of hepatotoxicity after initiation of protease inhibitor-contg. highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for HIV-1 infected patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV) co-infection.  Design: Retrospective study with 394 HIV-1-infected patients initiating HAART at a single university clinic.  Methods: Liver enzyme elevation (LEE) was defined as alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase at least five times the upper limit of normal and an abs. increase of > 100 U/l.  Relative risks for time to LEE were estd. using Cox proportional hazards models.  Results: Of 394 patients 7% were hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-pos. and 14% were anti-HCV-pos.  Patients with chronic hepatitis had a higher risk for LEE compared with patients without co-infection: 37% vs. 12% resp.  After adjustment for higher baseline transaminases, the presence of HBsAg or anti-HCV remained assocd. with an increased risk of LEE - relative risk 2.78 (95% confidence interval, 1.50-5.16) and 2.46 (95% confidence interval, 1.43-4.24) resp.  In patients with LEE, transaminases declined whether HAART was continued or modified.  Of patients with chronic HBV infection 38% lost HBeAg or developed anti-HBe after initiation of HAART, and one seroconverted from HBsAg-pos. to anti-HBs-pos.  However, there was no clear relationship with LEE.  Conclusions: HIV-1-infected patients co-infected with HBV or HCV were at considerably higher risk of developing LEE when HAART was initiated compared with patients without co-infection, but it is usually not necessary to modify antiretroviral therapy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['investigate the risk of hepatotoxicity', 'Retrospective study', 'Relative risks', 'LEE', 'LEE', 'LEE'], 'process': ['highly active antiretroviral therapy', 'HAART', 'Liver enzyme elevation', 'LEE', 'LEE', 'estd', 'Cox proportional hazards models', 'adjustment', 'HAART', 'HAART', 'modify antiretroviral therapy'], 'material': ['protease inhibitor-contg', 'chronic hepatitis B virus', 'HBV', 'hepatitis C virus', 'HCV', '394 HIV-1-infected patients', 'single university clinic', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'hepatitis B surface antigen', 'anti-HCV-pos', 'Patients with chronic hepatitis', 'HBsAg', 'anti-HCV', 'LEE', 'transaminases', 'HAART', 'chronic HBV', 'HBe', 'anti-HBs-pos', 'LEE', 'HIV-1-infected patients', 'HCV']}], 'authors': 'Basso, Alessandra; Serban, Simona', 'DOI': '10.1016/S0166-445X(96)00802-8', 'journal': 'Aquatic Toxicology ', 'title': 'Biomonitoring of aquatic pollution with feral eel (Anguilla anguilla). II. Biomarkers: pollution-induced biochemical responses'}, {'document': ['Ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and cell death.  Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1) is an evolutionarily conserved ER protein that suppresses cell death and that is abundantly expressed in both liver and kidney.  We explored the role of BI-1 in protection from ER stress and IR injury by using bi-1 knockout mice, employing models of transient hepatic or renal artery occlusion.  Compared to wild-type bi-1 mice, bi-1 knockout mice subjected to hepatic IR injury exhibited these characteristics: (i) increased histol. injury; (ii) increased serum transaminases, indicative of more hepatocyte death; (iii) increased percentages of TUNEL-pos. hepatocytes; (iv) greater elevations in caspase activity; and (v) more activation of ER stress proteins inositol-requiring enzyme 1 and activating transcription factor 6 and greater increases in expression of ER stress proteins C/EBP homologous protein and spliced XBP-1 protein.  Moreover, hepatic IR injury induced elevations in bi-1 mRNA in wild-type liver, suggesting a need for bi-1 gene induction to limit tissue injury.  Similar sensitization of kidney to ER stress and IR injury was obsd. in bi-1-/- mice.  We conclude that bi-1 provides endogenous protection of liver and kidney from ER stress and IR injury.  Anal. of components of the bi-1-dependent pathway for protection from IR injury may therefore reveal new strategies for organ preservation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['limit tissue injury', 'Anal.', 'organ preservation'], 'process': ['Ischemia-reperfusion', 'IR) injury', 'endoplasmic reticulum (', 'ER) stress and cell death', 'suppresses cell death', 'ER stress', 'IR injury', 'hepatic IR injury', 'increased histol. injury', 'serum transaminases', 'hepatocyte death', 'increased percentages of', 'elevations in caspase activity', 'activation of ER stress proteins', 'hepatic IR injury', 'elevations in bi-1 mRNA', 'bi-1 gene induction', 'ER stress', 'IR injury', 'ER stress', 'IR injury', 'IR injury'], 'material': ['Bax inhibitor-1', 'BI-1', 'ER protein', 'BI-1', 'bi-1 knockout mice', 'wild-type bi-1 mice', 'bi-1 knockout mice', 'TUNEL-pos', 'inositol-requiring enzyme', 'ER stress proteins', 'C/EBP homologous protein', 'spliced XBP-1 protein', 'wild-type liver', 'kidney', 'bi-1']}], 'authors': 'Iqbal, M.; Sharma, S. D.; Rezazadeh, H.; Hasan, N.; Abdulla, M.; Athar, M.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110607', 'journal': 'Molecular Catalysis ', 'title': 'Industrial applications of immobilized enzymes-A review'}, {'document': ['A review.  The amino functionality gives important biol. activity in pharmaceutical compds.  The formation of chiral amines and amino acids can be accomplished by several chem. routes but enzymic formation of amines offers many advantages in prepg. chiral amino compds. or amination of fragile compds. compared to stoichiometric or catalytic chem. transformations.  Biocatalytic routes to amines primarily use enzymes of the transaminase class (also known as aminotransferases) which transfer the amino function from a donor org. compd. to a ketone or aldehyde acceptor.  Although known since 1937, the transamination reaction experiences renewed interest due to the advances in biochem. and mol. biol. and the excellent selectivity of biocatalysts.  Other enzymes that have been used to synthesize chiral amines are from the phenylalanine ammonia lyase class that use ammonia as the amino source.  The use of recombinant enzymes for the biocatalytic prepn. of amines is expanding at a great rate and the range of enzymes revealed in DNA sequence databases is of the order of tens of thousands.  Since a large no. of substrates like ketones, hydroxyketones and ketoacids can be made by chem. synthesis, the growing toolbox of α-, β-, γ-, δ-, ε- and ω-transaminases enable the synthesis of various new chem. entities by biocatalytic amination reactions.  In order to simplify the isolation and purifn. of the product, it is useful to drive the amination reaction to completion.  The biocatalytic processes that have been developed show different strategies of overcoming the kinetic limitations of the transaminase reactions and show how some enzymes have been used in processes to make large quantities of chiral compds. with amino functionalities.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['amino functionality', 'prepg. chiral amino compds', 'biochem. and mol. biol', 'synthesize chiral amines'], 'process': ['chem. routes', 'enzymic formation', 'amination of fragile compds', 'Biocatalytic routes', 'transfer the amino function from a donor org. compd', 'transamination reaction', 'chem. synthesis', 'synthesis of various new chem. entities', 'biocatalytic amination reactions', 'amination reaction', 'biocatalytic processes', 'transaminase reactions', 'amino functionalities'], 'material': ['chiral amines', 'amino acids', 'amines', 'amines', 'enzymes', 'aminotransferases', 'ketone or aldehyde acceptor', 'biocatalysts', 'enzymes', 'phenylalanine ammonia lyase', 'ammonia', 'amino source', 'recombinant enzymes', 'enzymes', 'DNA sequence databases', 'substrates', 'ketones', 'hydroxyketones', 'ketoacids', 'α-, β-, γ-, δ-, ε- and ω-transaminases', 'enzymes']}], 'authors': 'Karmen, Arthur; Wroblewski, Felix; La Due, John S.', 'DOI': '10.1080/13510002.1996.11747079', 'journal': 'Redox Report ', 'title': 'Glutathione metabolizing enzymes and oxidative stress in ferric nitrilotriacetate mediated hepatic injury'}, {'document': ['Mammary epithelial cells transition between periods of proliferation and quiescence during development, menstrual cycles, and pregnancy, and as a result of oncogenic transformation.  Utilizing an organotypic 3D tissue culture model coupled with quant. metabolomics and proteomics, we identified significant differences in glutamate utilization between proliferating and quiescent cells.  Relative to quiescent cells, proliferating cells catabolized more glutamate via transaminases to couple non-essential amino acid (NEAA) synthesis to α-ketoglutarate generation and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle anaplerosis.  As cells transitioned to quiescence, glutamine consumption and transaminase expression were reduced, while glutamate dehydrogenase (GLUD) was induced, leading to decreased NEAA synthesis.  Highly proliferative human tumors display high transaminase and low GLUD expression, suggesting that proliferating cancer cells couple glutamine consumption to NEAA synthesis to promote biosynthesis.  These findings describe a competitive and partially redundant relationship between transaminases and GLUD, and they reveal how coupling of glutamate-derived carbon and nitrogen metab. can be regulated to support cell proliferation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biosynthesis'], 'process': ['oncogenic transformation', 'quant. metabolomics', 'proteomics', 'glutamate utilization', 'couple non-essential amino acid', 'tricarboxylic acid', 'TCA) cycle anaplerosis', 'glutamine consumption', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'GLUD', 'decreased NEAA synthesis', 'transaminase', 'GLUD', 'couple glutamine consumption', 'NEAA synthesis', 'coupling of glutamate-derived carbon and nitrogen metab', 'support cell proliferation'], 'material': ['Mammary epithelial cells', 'organotypic 3D tissue culture model', 'quiescent cells', 'proliferating cells', 'glutamate', 'NEAA', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'Highly proliferative human tumors', 'proliferating cancer cells', 'transaminases', 'GLUD']}], 'authors': 'Meers J L; Tempest D W; Brown C M', 'DOI': '10.1172/JCI103055', 'journal': 'Journal of Clinical Investigation ', 'title': 'Transaminase activity in human blood'}, {'document': ["A transaminase from Vibrio fluvialis JS17 showing activity toward chiral amines was purified to homogeneity and its enzymic properties were characterized.  The transaminase showed an apparent mol. mass of 100 kDa as detd. by gel filtration chromatog. and a subunit mass of 50 kDa by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, suggesting a dimeric structure.  The enzyme had an isoelec. point of 5.4 and its absorption spectrum exhibited maxima at 320 and 405 nm.  The optimal pH and temp. for enzyme activity were 9.2 and 37°, resp.  Pyruvate and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate increased enzyme stability whereas (S)-α-methylbenzylamine reversibly inactivated the enzyme.  The transaminase gene was cloned from a V. fluvialis JS17 genomic library.  The deduced amino acid sequence (453 residues) showed significant homol. with ω-amino acid:pyruvate transaminases (ω-APT) from various bacterial strains (80 identical residues with four ω-APTs).  However, of 159 conserved residues in the four ω-APTs, 79 were not conserved in the transaminase from V. fluvialis JS17.  Taken together with the sequence homol. results, and the lack of activity toward β-alanine (a typical amino donor for the ω-APT), the results suggest that the transaminase is a novel amine:pyruvate transaminase that has not been reported to date."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['gel filtration chromatog', 'MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry', 'dimeric structure', 'increased enzyme stability', 'sequence homol. results', 'pyruvate transaminase'], 'material': ['transaminase', 'Vibrio fluvialis', 'chiral amines', 'transaminase', 'absorption spectrum', 'Pyruvate', 'pyridoxal', '(S)-α-methylbenzylamine', 'transaminase gene', 'V. fluvialis JS17 genomic library', 'deduced amino acid sequence', 'ω-amino acid:pyruvate transaminases', 'ω-APT', 'bacterial strains', '80 identical residues', 'ω-APTs', 'ω-APTs', 'V. fluvialis JS17', 'β-alanine', 'ω-APT']}], 'authors': 'Slabu, Iustina; Galman, James L.; Lloyd, Richard C.; Turner, Nicholas J.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of general microbiology ', 'title': "'Glutamine(amide):2-oxoglutarate amino transferase oxido-reductase (NADP); an enzyme involved in the synthesis of glutamate by some bacteria"}, {'document': ['A major concern in therapy of acute liver failure is protection of hepatocytes to prevent apoptosis and maintain liver function.  Small interfering RNA (siRNA) is a powerful tool to silence gene expression in mammalian cells.  To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of siRNA in vivo we used different mouse models of acute liver failure.  We directed 21-nt siRNAs against caspase 8, which is a key enzyme in death receptor-mediated apoptosis.  Systemic application of caspase 8 siRNA results in inhibition of caspase 8 gene expression in the liver, thereby preventing Fas (CD95)-mediated apoptosis.  Protection of hepatocytes by caspase 8 siRNA significantly attenuated acute liver damage induced by agonistic Fas (CD95) antibody (Jo2) or by adenovirus expressing Fas ligand (AdFasL).  However, in a clinical situation the siRNAs most likely would be applied after the onset of acute liver failure.  Therefore we injected caspase 8 siRNA at a time point during AdFasL- and adenovirus wild type (Adwt)-mediated liver failure with already elevated liver transaminases.  Improvement of survival due to RNA interference was significant even when caspase 8 siRNA was applied during ongoing acute liver failure.  In addition, it is of particular interest that caspase 8 siRNA treatment was successful not only in acute liver failure mediated by specific Fas agonistic agents (Jo2 and AdFasL) but also in acute liver failure mediated by Adwt, which is an animal model reflecting multiple molecular mechanisms involved in human acute viral hepatitis.  Consequently, our data raise hope for future successful application of siRNA in patients with acute liver failure.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['therapy of acute liver failure', 'protection of hepatocytes', 'maintain liver function', 'silence gene expression', 'therapeutic efficacy', 'acute liver failure', 'preventing Fas (CD95)-mediated apoptosis', 'clinical situation', 'Improvement of survival'], 'process': ['prevent apoptosis', 'death receptor-mediated apoptosis', 'Systemic application', 'inhibition of caspase 8 gene expression', 'injected caspase 8 siRNA', 'liver failure', 'RNA interference', 'acute liver failure', 'Fas agonistic agents', 'acute liver failure', 'animal model'], 'material': ['Small interfering RNA', 'siRNA', 'siRNA', 'mouse models', '21-nt siRNAs', 'caspase', 'caspase 8 siRNA', 'caspase 8 siRNA', 'Fas', 'CD95) antibody', 'adenovirus', 'Fas ligand', 'AdFasL', 'siRNAs', 'AdFasL-', 'elevated liver transaminases', 'caspase 8 siRNA', 'caspase 8 siRNA', 'Jo2', 'AdFasL', 'Adwt', 'siRNA']}], 'authors': 'Kusters S; Gantner F; Kunstle G; Tiegs G', 'DOI': '10.1021/acscatal.7b02686', 'journal': 'ACS Catalysis ', 'title': 'Discovery, Engineering, and Synthetic Application of Transaminase Biocatalysts'}, {'document': ['Aluminum is present in many manufd. foods and medicines and is also added to drinking water during purifn. purposes.  Therefore, the present expt. was undertaken to det. the effectiveness of propolis in alleviating the toxicity of aluminum chloride (AlCl3) on biochem. parameters, antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxidn. of male Wistar Albino rats.  Animals were assigned to 1 of 4 groups: control; 34 mg AlCl3/kg bw; 50 mg propolis/kg bw; AlCl3 (34 mg/kg bw) plus propolis (50 mg/kg bw), resp.  Rats were orally administered their resp. doses daily for 70 days.  The levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) was increased, and the activities of glutathione S-transferase, superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase were decreased in liver, kidney and brain of rats treated with AlCl3.  While, TBARS was decreased and the antioxidant enzymes were increased in rats treated with propolis alone.  Plasma transaminases, lactate dehydrogenase, glucose, urea, creatinine, bilirubin, total lipid, cholesterol, triglyceride and LDL-c were increased, while total protein, albumin and high HDL-c were decreased due to AlCl3 administration.  The presence of propolis with AlCl3 alleviated its toxic effects in rats treated with AlCl3.  It can be concluded that propolis has beneficial influences and could be able to antagonize AlCl3 toxicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['det. the effectiveness', 'alleviating the toxicity', 'antagonize AlCl3 toxicity'], 'process': ['added to drinking water', 'lipid peroxidn', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'superoxide dismutase', 'glutathione peroxidase'], 'material': ['Aluminum', 'propolis', 'aluminum chloride', 'AlCl3', 'biochem. parameters', 'antioxidant enzymes', 'control', '34 mg AlCl3', '50 mg', 'propolis', 'AlCl3', 'propolis', 'Rats', 'thiobarbituric acid reactive substances', 'TBARS', 'catalase', 'AlCl3', 'TBARS', 'antioxidant enzymes', 'propolis', 'Plasma transaminases', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'glucose', 'urea', 'creatinine', 'bilirubin', 'total lipid', 'cholesterol', 'total protein', 'albumin', 'AlCl3', 'propolis', 'AlCl3', 'AlCl3', 'propolis']}], 'authors': 'den Brinker, Marieke; Wit, Ferdinand W. N. M.; Wertheim-van Dillen, Pauline M. E.; Jurriaans, Suzanne; Weel, Jan; van Leeuwen, Remko; Pakker, Nadine G.; Reiss, Peter; Danner, Sven A.; Weverling, Gerrit Jan; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Gastroenterology ', 'title': 'Interferon gamma plays a critical role in T cell-dependent liver injury in mice initiated by concanavalin A'}, {'document': ["Growth-promoting signaling mols., including the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), drive the metabolic reprogramming of cancer cells required to support their biosynthetic needs for rapid growth and proliferation [1].  Glutamine is catabolyzed to α-ketoglutarate (αKG), a tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediate, through two deamination reactions, the first requiring glutaminase (GLS) to generate glutamate and the second occurring via glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) or transaminases [2].  Activation of the mTORC1 pathway was shown previously to promote the anaplerotic entry of glutamine to the TCA cycle via GDH.  Moreover, mTORC1 activation also stimulates the uptake of glutamine, but the mechanism is unknown [3].  It is generally thought that rates of glutamine utilization are limited by mitochondrial uptake via GLS, suggesting that, in addn. to GDH, mTORC1 could regulate GLS.  Here the authors demonstrate that mTORC1 pos. regulates GLS and glutamine flux through this enzyme.  The authors show that mTORC1 controls GLS levels through the S6K1-dependent regulation of c-Myc (Myc).  Molecularly, S6K1 enhances Myc translation efficiency by modulating the phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor eIF4B, which is crit. to unwind its structured 5' untranslated region (5'UTR).  Finally, the authors' data show that the pharmacol. inhibition of GLS is a promising target in pancreatic cancers expressing low levels of PTEN."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pharmacol. inhibition of GLS'], 'process': ['mammalian target of rapamycin complex', 'mTORC1', 'metabolic reprogramming', 'support their biosynthetic needs', 'deamination reactions', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'GDH', 'Activation of the', 'mTORC1 pathway', 'TCA cycle', 'mTORC1 activation', 'glutamine utilization', 'mitochondrial uptake', 'pos. regulates', 'glutamine flux', 'S6K1-dependent regulation', 'enhances Myc translation efficiency', 'modulating the phosphorylation', "unwind its structured 5' untranslated region"], 'material': ['Glutamine', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'αKG', 'tricarboxylic acid', 'TCA', 'glutaminase', 'GLS', 'transaminases', 'GDH', 'glutamine', 'GLS', 'mTORC1', 'GLS', 'mTORC1', 'GLS', 'mTORC1', 'GLS', 'c-Myc', 'Myc', 'S6K1', 'pancreatic cancers', 'PTEN']}], 'authors': 'Bailly-Maitre, Beatrice; Fondevila, Constantino; Kaldas, Fady; Droin, Nathalie; Luciano, Frederic; Ricci, Jean-Ehrland; Croxton, Rhonda; Krajewska, Maryla; Zapata, Juan M.; Kupiec-Weglinski, Jerzy W.; et al', 'DOI': '10.1097/00002030-200012220-00011', 'journal': 'AIDS ', 'title': 'Hepatitis B and C virus co-infection and the risk for hepatotoxicity of highly active antiretroviral therapy in HIV-1 infection'}, {'document': ['A review.  Cholesteryl ester storage disease (CESD) is caused by deficient lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) activity, predominantly resulting in cholesteryl ester (CE) accumulation, particularly in the liver, spleen, and macrophages throughout the body.  The disease is characterized by microvesicular steatosis leading to liver failure, accelerated atherosclerosis and premature demise.  Although CESD is rare, it is likely that many patients are unrecognized or misdiagnosed.  Here, the findings in 135 CESD patients described in the literature are reviewed.  Diagnoses were based on liver biopsies, LAL deficiency and/or LAL gene (LIPA) mutations.  Hepatomegaly was present in 99.3% of patients; 74% also had splenomegaly.  When reported, most patients had elevated serum total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, and transaminases (AST, ALT, or both), while HDL-cholesterol was decreased.  All 112 liver biopsied patients had the characteristic pathol., which is progressive, and includes microvesicular steatosis, which leads to fibrosis, micronodular cirrhosis, and ultimately to liver failure.  Pathognomonic birefringent CE crystals or their remnant clefts were obsd. in hepatic cells.  Extrahepatic manifestations included portal hypertension, esophageal varices, and accelerated atherosclerosis.  Liver failure in 17 reported patients resulted in liver transplantation and/or death.  Genotyping identified 31 LIPA mutations in 55 patients; 61% of mutations were the common exon 8 splice-junction mutation (E8SJM-1G>A), for which 18 patients were homozygous.  Genotype/phenotype correlations were limited; however, E8SJM-1G>A homozygotes typically had early-onset, slowly progressive disease.  Supportive treatment included cholestyramine, statins, and, ultimately, liver transplantation.  Recombinant LAL replacement was shown to be effective in animal models, and recently, a phase I/II clin. trial demonstrated its safety and indicated its potential metabolic efficacy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Extrahepatic manifestations', 'potential metabolic efficacy'], 'process': ['Cholesteryl ester storage disease', 'CESD', 'deficient lysosomal acid lipase', 'LAL', 'cholesteryl ester', 'accumulation,', 'microvesicular steatosis', 'liver failure', 'CESD', 'CESD', 'liver biopsies', 'LAL deficiency', 'LAL gene', 'LIPA', 'Hepatomegaly', 'elevated serum total cholesterol', 'AST', 'ALT', 'HDL-cholesterol', 'microvesicular steatosis', 'fibrosis', 'micronodular cirrhosis', 'liver failure', 'portal hypertension', 'accelerated atherosclerosis', 'Liver failure', 'liver transplantation', 'Genotyping', 'LIPA mutations', 'common exon 8 splice-junction mutation', 'E8SJM-1G', '>', 'liver transplantation'], 'material': ['CE', 'liver', 'spleen', 'macrophages', 'liver biopsied', 'Pathognomonic birefringent CE crystals', 'hepatic cells', 'esophageal varices', 'E8SJM-1G', 'Supportive treatment', 'cholestyramine', 'statins', 'Recombinant LAL', 'animal models', 'phase I/II clin. trial']}], 'authors': 'Ward, John; Wohlgemuth, Roland', 'DOI': '10.1073/pnas.0506854103', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Cytoprotective gene bi-1 is required for intrinsic protection from endoplasmic reticulum stress and ischemia-reperfusion injury'}, {'document': ['Reprogrammed cellular metabolism is a common characteristic observed in various cancers.  However, whether metabolic changes directly regulate cancer development and progression remains poorly understood.  Here we show that BCAT1, a cytosolic aminotransferase for branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), is aberrantly activated and functionally required for chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) in humans and in mouse models of CML.  BCAT1 is upregulated during progression of CML and promotes BCAA production in leukaemia cells by aminating the branched-chain keto acids.  Blocking BCAT1 gene expression or enzymatic activity induces cellular differentiation and impairs the propagation of blast crisis CML both in vitro and in vivo.  Stable-isotope tracer experiments combined with nuclear magnetic resonance-based metabolic analysis demonstrate the intracellular production of BCAAs by BCAT1.  Direct supplementation with BCAAs ameliorates the defects caused by BCAT1 knockdown, indicating that BCAT1 exerts its oncogenic function through BCAA production in blast crisis CML cells.  Importantly, BCAT1 expression not only is activated in human blast crisis CML and de novo acute myeloid leukaemia, but also predicts disease outcome in patients.  As an upstream regulator of BCAT1 expression, we identified Musashi2 (MSI2), an oncogenic RNA binding protein that is required for blast crisis CML.  MSI2 is physically associated with the BCAT1 transcript and positively regulates its protein expression in leukaemia.  Taken together, this work reveals that altered BCAA metabolism activated through the MSI2-BCAT1 axis drives cancer progression in myeloid leukaemia.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['whether metabolic changes', 'intracellular production of BCAAs', 'upstream regulator of BCAT1 expression'], 'process': ['Reprogrammed cellular metabolism', 'CML', 'CML', 'Blocking BCAT1 gene expression', 'enzymatic activity', 'cellular differentiation', 'Stable-isotope tracer experiments', 'nuclear magnetic resonance-based metabolic analysis', 'Direct supplementation with BCAAs', 'BCAT1 knockdown', 'BCAA production', 'altered BCAA metabolism', 'MSI2-BCAT1 axis'], 'material': ['BCAT1', 'cytosolic aminotransferase', 'branched-chain amino', 'BCAAs', 'chronic myeloid leukaemia', 'mouse models', 'CML', 'BCAT1', 'BCAA', 'leukaemia cells', 'aminating the branched-chain keto acids', 'BCAT1', 'blast crisis CML cells', 'BCAT1', 'human blast crisis CML', 'de novo', 'acute myeloid leukaemia', 'Musashi2', 'MSI2', 'oncogenic RNA binding protein', 'blast crisis CML', 'MSI2', 'BCAT1 transcript']}], 'authors': 'Coloff, Jonathan L.; Murphy, J. Patrick; Braun, Craig R.; Harris, Isaac S.; Shelton, Laura M.; Kami, Kenjiro; Gygi, Steven P.; Selfors, Laura M.; Brugge, Joan S.', 'DOI': '10.2174/138527210792927546', 'journal': 'Current Organic Chemistry ', 'title': 'High-yield biocatalytic amination reactions in organic synthesis'}, {'document': ['Intermediary metabolism generates substrates for chromatin modification, enabling the potential coupling of metabolic and epigenetic states.  Here we identify a network linking metabolic and epigenetic alterations that is central to oncogenic transformation downstream of the liver kinase B1 (LKB1, also known as STK11) tumour suppressor, an integrator of nutrient availability, metabolism and growth.  By developing genetically engineered mouse models and primary pancreatic epithelial cells, and employing transcriptional, proteomics, and metabolic analyses, we find that oncogenic cooperation between LKB1 loss and KRAS activation is fuelled by pronounced mTOR-dependent induction of the serine-glycine-one-carbon pathway coupled to S-adenosylmethionine generation.  At the same time, DNA methyltransferases are upregulated, leading to elevation in DNA methylation with particular enrichment at retrotransposon elements associated with their transcriptional silencing.  Correspondingly, LKB1 deficiency sensitizes cells and tumours to inhibition of serine biosynthesis and DNA methylation.  Thus, we define a hypermetabolic state that incites changes in the epigenetic landscape to support tumorigenic growth of LKB1-mutant cells, while resulting in potential therapeutic vulnerabilities.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['coupling of metabolic and epigenetic states', 'potential therapeutic vulnerabilities'], 'process': ['Intermediary metabolism', 'chromatin modification', 'oncogenic transformation', 'liver kinase B1', 'tumour suppressor', 'integrator of nutrient availability, metabolism and growth', 'transcriptional', 'proteomics', 'metabolic analyses', 'oncogenic cooperation', 'KRAS activation', 'mTOR-dependent induction', 'serine-glycine-one-carbon pathway', 'S-adenosylmethionine generation', 'DNA methyltransferases', 'elevation in DNA methylation', 'transcriptional silencing', 'LKB1 deficiency', 'inhibition of serine biosynthesis and DNA methylation', 'changes in the epigenetic landscape'], 'material': ['LKB1', 'STK11', 'genetically engineered mouse models', 'primary pancreatic epithelial cells', 'LKB1', 'retrotransposon elements', 'LKB1-mutant cells']}], 'authors': 'Shin, J.-S.; Yun, H.; Jang, J.-W.; Park, I.; Kim, B.-G.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.cmet.2016.03.016', 'journal': 'Cell Metabolism ', 'title': 'Differential Glutamate Metabolism in Proliferating and Quiescent Mammary Epithelial Cells'}, {'document': ['Glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) may be a stress-responsive enzyme, as GDH exhibits considerable thermal stability, and de novo synthesis of the alpha-GDH subunit is induced by exogenous ammonium and senescence.  NaCl treatment induces reactive oxygen species (ROS), intracellular ammonia, expression of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv Xanthi) gdh-NAD;A1 encoding the alpha-subunit of GDH, increase in immunoreactive alpha-polypeptide, assembly of the anionic isoenzymes, and in vitro GDH aminating activity in tissues from hypergeous plant organs.  In vivo aminating GDH activity was confirmed by gas chromatorgraphy-mass spectrometry monitoring of (15)N-Glu, (15)N-Gln, and (15)N-Pro in the presence of methionine sulfoximine and amino oxyacetic acid, inhibitors of Gln synthetase and transaminases, respectively.  Along with upregulation of alpha-GDH by NaCl, isocitrate dehydrogenase genes, which provide 2-oxoglutarate, are also induced.  Treatment with menadione also elicits a severalfold increase in ROS and immunoreactive alpha-polypeptide and GDH activity.  This suggests that ROS participate in the signaling pathway for GDH expression and protease activation, which contribute to intracellular hyperammonia.  Ammonium ions also mimic the effects of salinity in induction of gdh-NAD;A1 expression.  These results, confirmed in tobacco and grape (Vitis vinifera cv Sultanina) tissues, support the hypothesis that the salinity-generated ROS signal induces alpha-GDH subunit expression, and the anionic iso-GDHs assimilate ammonia, acting as antistress enzymes in ammonia detoxification and production of Glu for Pro synthesis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Glutamate dehydrogenase', 'stress-responsive enzyme', 'de novo synthesis of the alpha-GDH subunit', 'senescence', 'NaCl treatment', 'reactive oxygen species', 'increase in immunoreactive alpha-polypeptide', 'assembly of the anionic isoenzymes', 'in vitro GDH aminating activity', 'gas chromatorgraphy-mass spectrometry monitoring', 'upregulation of alpha-GDH', 'signaling pathway', 'protease activation', 'intracellular hyperammonia', 'mimic the effects', 'salinity', 'induction of', 'salinity-generated ROS signal', 'ammonia detoxification', 'production of Glu', 'Pro synthesis'], 'material': ['GDH', 'GDH', 'exogenous ammonium', 'ROS', 'intracellular ammonia', 'tobacco (', 'Nicotiana tabacum cv Xanthi', 'gdh-NAD;A1', 'alpha-subunit of GDH', 'hypergeous plant organs', 'In vivo aminating GDH', '(15)N-Glu', '(15)N-Gln', '(15)N-Pro', 'methionine sulfoximine', 'amino oxyacetic', 'inhibitors of Gln', 'NaCl', 'isocitrate dehydrogenase genes', '2-oxoglutarate', 'menadione', 'ROS', 'immunoreactive alpha-polypeptide', 'GDH', 'ROS', 'GDH', 'Ammonium ions', 'gdh-NAD;A1 expression', 'tobacco', 'grape', 'Vitis vinifera cv Sultanina', 'alpha-GDH subunit', 'anionic iso-GDHs', 'ammonia', 'antistress enzymes']}], 'authors': 'Zender Lars; Hutker Sebastian; Liedtke Christian; Tillmann Hans Ludger; Zender Steffen; Mundt Bettina; Waltemathe Morlen; Gosling Thomas; Flemming Peer; Malek Nisar Peter; et al', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00253-003-1250-6', 'journal': 'Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology ', 'title': 'Purification, characterization, and molecular cloning of a novel amine:pyruvate transaminase from Vibrio fluvialis JS17'}, {'document': ['Two microorganisms showing high ω-transaminase activity (Klebsiella pneumoniae JS2F and Bacillus thuringiensis JS64) were screened by the enrichment method using (S)-α-methylbenzylamine (α-MBA) as a sole nitrogen source.  Optimal carbon and nitrogen sources for enzyme induction and the properties of ω-transaminases were investigated.  ω-Transaminase from B. thuringiensis JS64 was highly enantioselective (E = 75.3) for (S)-enantiomer of α-MBA and showed remarkable stability.  However, ω-transaminase showed severe product inhibition by acetophenone.  An aq./org. two-phase system was introduced to overcome this problem.  Through solvent screening, cyclohexanone and Et acetate were selected as the best org. phases.  The acetophenone-extg. capacity of the solvent and the biocompatibility of the solvent to the cell were important determinants in the reaction rate at high concns. of α-MBA.  The reaction rate of ω-transamination was strongly influenced by the vol. ratio of org. phase to aq. phase as well as agitation speed in the biphasic mixt.  Using the optimal vol. ratio (Vorg: Vaq = 1:4) in the biphasic system with cyclohexanone, the reaction rate of ω-transaminase under vigorous mixing conditions increased ninefold compared with that in the monophasic aq. system.  At the same optimal conditions, using whole cells, 500 mM α-MBA could be resolved successfully to above 95% enantiomeric excess of (R)-α-MBA with ∼51% conversion.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['org. phases'], 'process': ['ω-transaminase activity', 'enrichment method', 'enzyme induction', 'solvent screening', 'reaction', 'ω-transamination', 'optimal vol. ratio', 'biphasic system', 'reaction', 'vigorous mixing conditions'], 'material': ['Klebsiella pneumoniae', 'Bacillus thuringiensis', 'JS64', '(S)-α-methylbenzylamine', 'α-MBA', 'carbon and nitrogen sources', 'ω-transaminases', 'ω-Transaminase', 'B. thuringiensis JS64', 'α-MBA', 'ω-transaminase', 'acetophenone', 'cyclohexanone', 'Et acetate', 'acetophenone-extg. capacity', 'solvent', 'solvent', 'α-MBA', 'org. phase', 'aq. phase', 'biphasic mixt', 'cyclohexanone', 'ω-transaminase', 'monophasic aq. system', 'whole cells', '500 mM α-MBA', '(R)-α-MBA', '∼51% conversion.']}], 'authors': 'Newairy, Al-Sayeda A.; Salama, Afrah F.; Hussien, Hend M.; Yousef, Mokhtar I.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Caspase 8 small interfering RNA prevents acute liver failure in mice'}, {'document': ['OBJECTIVE:  The antidiabetic agent metformin is regularly discussed as a promising treatment for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which is characterized by insulin resistance.  However, the evidence for its beneficial effects is limited, and conflicting reports have been published.  The purpose of this study was to conduct a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to test whether metformin improves liver histology in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.  MATERIAL AND METHODS:  Forty-eight patients with biopsy-proven NAFLD were randomized to treatment with metformin (n=24) or placebo (n=24) for 6 months.  A second liver biopsy was obtained in all subjects who completed the trial (n=44).  Data analyses are restricted to this group (per-protocol analyses).  The primary outcome was changes in histologically assessed liver steatosis.  Secondary outcomes were changes in NAFLD activity (NAS)-score, liver steatosis assessed by computed tomography (CT), liver transaminases, body-weight, metabolic variables and inflammatory markers.  RESULTS:  No significant differences between treatment with metformin or placebo were observed for changes in liver steatosis, assessed either histologically or by CT, NAS-score, liver transaminases or on markers of insulin resistance or inflammation.  In contrast, beneficial effects of metformin were observed on changes in body-weight (p<0.001), serum levels of cholesterol (p=0.004), LDL-cholesterol (p<0.001), glucose (p=0.032) and on HbA1c (p=0.020).  CONCLUSIONS:  Treatment with metformin for 6 months was no better than placebo in terms of improvement in liver histology in patients with NAFLD.  Nevertheless, the use of metformin could still be beneficial in this group as it is associated with a reduction in serum levels of lipids and glucose. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00303537).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['non-alcoholic fatty liver disease', 'test whether metformin improves liver histology', 'Data analyses', 'changes in histologically assessed liver steatosis', 'improvement in liver histology'], 'process': ['NAFLD', 'insulin resistance', 'non-alcoholic fatty liver disease', 'liver biopsy', 'NAFLD activity', 'liver steatosis', 'computed tomography', 'CT', 'liver steatosis', 'CT', 'NAS-score', 'NAFLD', 'reduction in serum levels of lipids and glucose'], 'material': ['antidiabetic agent', 'metformin', 'NAFLD', 'metformin', 'placebo', 'liver transaminases', 'body-weight', 'metformin', 'liver transaminases', 'markers of insulin resistance', 'metformin', 'serum levels of cholesterol', 'LDL', 'glucose', 'metformin', 'placebo', 'metformin']}], 'authors': 'Csibi, Alfredo; Lee, Gina; Yoon, Sang-Oh; Tong, Haoxuan; Ilter, Didem; Elia, Ilaria; Fendt, Sarah-Maria; Roberts, Thomas M.; Blenis, John', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.fct.2009.01.032', 'journal': 'Food and Chemical Toxicology ', 'title': 'Propolis alleviates aluminum-induced lipid peroxidation and biochemical parameters in male rats'}, {'document': ['The primary hyperoxalurias (PHs) are rare disorders of glyoxylate metabolism in which specific hepatic enzyme deficiencies result in overproduction of oxalate.  Due to the resulting severe hyperoxaluria, recurrent urolithiasis or progressive nephrocalcinosis are principal manifestations.  End stage renal failure frequently occurs and is followed by systemic oxalate deposition along with its devastating effects.  Due to the lack of familiarity with PHs and their heterogeneous clinical expressions, the diagnosis is often delayed until there is advanced disease.  In recent years, improvements in medical management have been associated with better patient outcomes.  Although there are several therapeutic options that can help prevent early kidney failure, the only curative treatment to date is combined liver-kidney transplantation in patients with type I PH.  Promising areas of investigation are being identified.  Knowledge of the spectrum of disease expression, early diagnosis, and initiation of treatment before renal failure are essential to realize a benefit for patients.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['specific hepatic enzyme deficiencies', 'early diagnosis', 'realize a benefit for patients'], 'process': ['primary hyperoxalurias', 'PHs', 'disorders of glyoxylate metabolism', 'severe hyperoxaluria', 'recurrent urolithiasis', 'progressive nephrocalcinosis', 'systemic oxalate deposition', 'PHs', 'combined liver-kidney transplantation', 'initiation of treatment before renal failure'], 'material': ['oxalate', 'End stage renal failure', 'advanced disease']}], 'authors': 'Bernstein, Donna L.; Hulkova, Helena; Bialer, Martin G.; Desnick, Robert J.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.cub.2014.08.007', 'journal': 'Current Biology ', 'title': 'The mTORC1/S6K1 Pathway Regulates Glutamine Metabolism through the eIF4B-Dependent Control of c-Myc Translation'}, {'document': ["Growth-promoting signaling molecules, including the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), drive the metabolic reprogramming of cancer cells required to support their biosynthetic needs for rapid growth and proliferation.  Glutamine is catabolyzed to α-ketoglutarate (αKG), a tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediate, through two deamination reactions, the first requiring glutaminase (GLS) to generate glutamate and the second occurring via glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) or transaminases.  Activation of the mTORC1 pathway has been shown previously to promote the anaplerotic entry of glutamine to the TCA cycle via GDH.  Moreover, mTORC1 activation also stimulates the uptake of glutamine, but the mechanism is unknown.  It is generally thought that rates of glutamine utilization are limited by mitochondrial uptake via GLS, suggesting that, in addition to GDH, mTORC1 could regulate GLS.  Here we demonstrate that mTORC1 positively regulates GLS and glutamine flux through this enzyme.  We show that mTORC1 controls GLS levels through the S6K1-dependent regulation of c-Myc (Myc).  Molecularly, S6K1 enhances Myc translation efficiency by modulating the phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor eIF4B, which is critical to unwind its structured 5' untranslated region (5'UTR).  Finally, our data show that the pharmacological inhibition of GLS is a promising target in pancreatic cancers expressing low levels of PTEN."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['promote the anaplerotic entry of glutamine'], 'process': ['mammalian target of rapamycin complex', 'mTORC1', 'metabolic reprogramming', 'support their biosynthetic needs', 'deamination reactions', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'Activation of the mTORC1 pathway', 'TCA cycle', 'mTORC1 activation', 'glutamine utilization', 'mitochondrial uptake', 'glutamine flux', 'S6K1-dependent regulation', 'enhances Myc translation efficiency', 'modulating the phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor eIF4B', "unwind its structured 5' untranslated region", 'pharmacological inhibition'], 'material': ['Growth-promoting signaling molecules', 'Glutamine', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'αKG', 'tricarboxylic acid', 'TCA', 'glutaminase', 'GLS', 'GDH', 'transaminases', 'GDH', 'glutamine', 'GLS', 'GDH', 'mTORC1', 'GLS', 'mTORC1', 'GLS', 'mTORC1', 'GLS', 'c-Myc', 'Myc', 'S6K1', 'GLS', 'pancreatic cancers', 'PTEN']}], 'authors': 'Hattori Ayuna; Tayyari Fariba; McSkimming Daniel; Kannan Natarajan; Edison Arthur S; Ito Takahiro; Hattori Ayuna; Kannan Natarajan; Ito Takahiro; Tsunoda Makoto; et al', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.jhep.2013.02.014', 'journal': 'Journal of Hepatology ', 'title': 'Cholesteryl ester storage disease: Review of the findings in 135 reported patients with an underdiagnosed disease'}, {'document': ['To establish an accurate molecular model of human branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism, the distribution, activity, and expression of the first 2 enzymes in the catabolic pathway--branched-chain-amino-acid aminotransferase (BCAT) and branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex--were determined in human tissues.  The same enzyme activities were measured in rat and African green monkey tissues.  Overall, the activities of BCAT and BCKD were higher in rat than in human and monkey tissues; nevertheless, the ratio of the 2 activities was similar in most tissues in the 3 species.  Total oxidative capacity was concentrated in skeletal muscle and liver (> 70%) with muscle having a higher proportion of the total in humans and monkeys.  In humans, brain (10-20%) and kidney (8-13%) may contribute significantly to whole-body BCAA metabolism.  Furthermore, in primates the high ratio of transaminase to oxidative capacity in the entire gastrointestinal tract serves to prevent loss of essential BCAA carbon and raises the possibility that the gastrointestinal tract contributes to the plasma branched-chain alpha-keto acid pool.  Quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used to examine expression of human branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase kinase (BCKDK), the key enzyme that regulates the activity state of the human BCKD complex and human BCAT isoenzymes.  To design the primers for the polymerase chain reaction, human BCKDK was cloned.  BCKDK message was found in all human tissues tested, with the highest amount in human muscle.  As in rats, there was ubiquitous expression of mitochondrial BCAT, whereas mRNA for the cytosolic enzyme was at or below the limit of detection outside the brain.  Finally, the role of BCAA in body nitrogen metabolism is discussed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['establish an accurate molecular model of human branched-chain amino acid', 'catabolic pathway', 'prevent loss of essential BCAA carbon', 'design the primers for the polymerase chain reaction', 'role of BCAA', 'body nitrogen metabolism'], 'process': ['BCKD', 'enzyme activities', 'whole-body BCAA metabolism', 'Quantitative polymerase chain reaction', 'BCKDK'], 'material': ['BCAA', 'branched-chain-amino-acid aminotransferase', 'BCAT', 'branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase', 'human tissues', 'rat', 'African green monkey tissues', 'BCAT', 'BCKD', 'rat', 'human and monkey tissues', 'Total oxidative capacity', 'skeletal muscle', 'muscle', 'humans and monkeys', 'brain', 'kidney', 'high ratio of transaminase', 'gastrointestinal tract', 'plasma branched-chain alpha-keto acid', 'human branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase kinase', 'human BCKD complex', 'human BCAT isoenzymes', 'human BCKDK', 'BCKDK', 'muscle', 'mitochondrial BCAT', 'mRNA', 'cytosolic enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Kottakis Filippos; Nicolay Brandon N; Roumane Ahlima; Nagle Julia M; Boukhali Myriam; Dyson Nicholas J; Haas Wilhelm; Bardeesy Nabeel; Kottakis Filippos; Roumane Ahlima; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Nature ', 'title': 'Cancer progression by reprogrammed BCAA metabolism in myeloid leukaemia'}, {'document': ['At endogenous brain concentrations, the astrocyte-derived metabolite kynurenic acid (KYNA) antagonizes the alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor and, possibly, the glycine co-agonist site of the NMDA receptor.  The functions of these two receptors, which are intimately involved in synaptic plasticity and cognitive processes, may, therefore, be enhanced by reductions in brain KYNA levels.  This concept was tested in mice with a targeted deletion of kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), a major biosynthetic enzyme of brain KYNA.  At 21 days of age, KAT II knock-out mice had reduced hippocampal KYNA levels (-71%) and showed significantly increased performance in three cognitive paradigms that rely in part on the integrity of hippocampal function, namely object exploration and recognition, passive avoidance, and spatial discrimination.  Moreover, compared with wild-type controls, hippocampal slices from KAT II-deficient mice showed a significant increase in the amplitude of long-term potentiation in vitro.  These functional changes were accompanied by reduced extracellular KYNA (-66%) and increased extracellular glutamate (+51%) concentrations, measured by hippocampal microdialysis in vivo.  Taken together, a picture emerges in which a reduction in the astrocytic formation of KYNA increases glutamatergic tone in the hippocampus and enhances cognitive abilities and synaptic plasticity.  Our studies raise the prospect that interventions aimed specifically at reducing KYNA formation in the brain may constitute a promising molecular strategy for cognitive improvement in health and disease.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['synaptic plasticity', 'object exploration and recognition', 'enhances cognitive abilities', 'cognitive improvement in health and disease'], 'process': ['targeted deletion', 'biosynthetic enzyme', 'reduced hippocampal KYNA', 'passive avoidance', 'spatial discrimination', 'functional changes', 'reduced extracellular KYNA', 'hippocampal microdialysis', 'reduction in the astrocytic formation of KYNA', 'reducing KYNA formation in the brain'], 'material': ['astrocyte-derived metabolite', 'kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor', 'glycine co-agonist site', 'NMDA receptor', 'KYNA', 'kynurenine aminotransferase', 'KAT', 'II', 'KAT II', 'hippocampal slices', 'KAT II', 'extracellular glutamate']}], 'authors': 'Skopelitis Damianos S; Paranychianakis Nikolaos V; Paschalidis Konstantinos A; Pliakonis Eleni D; Delis Ioannis D; Yakoumakis Dimitris I; Kouvarakis Antonios; Papadakis Anastasia K; Stephanou Euripides G; Roubelakis-Angelakis Kalliopi A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Nature ', 'title': 'LKB1 loss links serine metabolism to DNA methylation and tumorigenesis'}, {'document': ['Long-term caloric restriction (CR) has been shown to extend max. life span in lab. rodents.  We investigated the activities of gluconeogenic and transaminase enzymes in the livers of old and young mice fed either control or calorie-restricted diets.  Livers were sampled 48 h after the last scheduled feeding time.  Old mice on CR showed significant increases in the activities of pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and glucose-6-phosphatase when compared with controls, indicating increased gluconeogenesis.  Increased activities of tyrosine, tryptophan, histidine, phenylalanine, alanine and aspartate transaminases, as well as of malate and glutamate dehydrogenases were also obsd., while branched-chain amino acid transaminase was unchanged.  Young mice on CR showed a significant increase only in the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity in the gluconeogenic pathway, while transaminases were increased significantly, except for tryptophan and branched-chain amino acid transaminases.  Glutamate dehydrogenase also showed increased activity but malate dehydrogenase was unchanged.  Increases in the level of acetyl-CoA and [Acetyl-CoA]/[CoA] ratio were obsd. only in the old CR mice.  Our results demonstrate increased gluconeogenic activity in CR mice and are consistent with a state of increased hepatic gluconeogenesis and protein turnover during CR.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['increased hepatic gluconeogenesis and protein turnover'], 'process': ['Long-term caloric restriction', 'CR', 'extend max. life span', 'increased gluconeogenesis', 'Increased activities', 'glutamate dehydrogenases', 'phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity', 'Glutamate dehydrogenase', 'malate dehydrogenase', 'Increases in the level of acetyl-CoA', 'increased gluconeogenic activity', 'CR'], 'material': ['lab. rodents', 'gluconeogenic and transaminase enzymes', 'old and young mice', 'control or calorie-restricted diets', 'Livers were sampled', 'CR', 'pyruvate carboxylase', 'phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase', 'fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase', 'glucose-6-phosphatase', 'tyrosine', 'tryptophan', 'histidine', 'phenylalanine', 'alanine', 'malate', 'branched-chain amino acid transaminase', 'Young mice', 'CR', 'transaminases', 'tryptophan', 'branched-chain amino acid transaminases', '[Acetyl-CoA]/[CoA]', 'CR mice', 'CR mice']}], 'authors': 'Shin, Jong-Shik; Kim, Byung-Gee', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Plant cell ', 'title': 'Abiotic stress generates ROS that signal expression of anionic glutamate dehydrogenases to form glutamate for proline synthesis in tobacco and grapevine'}, {'document': ['Cancer cells are known to undergo metabolic reprogramming to sustain survival and rapid proliferation, however, it remains to be fully elucidated how oncogenic lesions coordinate the metabolic switch under various stressed conditions.  Here we show that deprivation of glucose or glutamine, two major nutrition sources for cancer cells, dramatically activated serine biosynthesis pathway (SSP) that was accompanied by elevated cMyc expression.  We further identified that cMyc stimulated SSP activation by transcriptionally upregulating expression of multiple SSP enzymes.  Moreover, we demonstrated that SSP activation facilitated by cMyc led to elevated glutathione (GSH) production, cell cycle progression and nucleic acid synthesis, which are essential for cell survival and proliferation especially under nutrient-deprived conditions.  We further uncovered that phosphoserine phosphatase (PSPH), the final rate-limiting enzyme of the SSP pathway, is critical for cMyc-driven cancer progression both in vitro and in vivo, and importantly, aberrant expression of PSPH is highly correlated with mortality in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients, suggesting a potential causal relation between this cMyc-regulated enzyme, or SSP activation in general, and cancer development.  Taken together, our results reveal that aberrant expression of cMyc leads to the enhanced SSP activation, an essential part of metabolic switch, to facilitate cancer progression under nutrient-deprived conditions.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['sustain survival and rapid proliferation', 'how oncogenic lesions', 'cancer development', 'facilitate cancer progression'], 'process': ['metabolic reprogramming', 'coordinate the metabolic switch', 'deprivation of glucose', 'serine biosynthesis pathway', 'SSP', 'SSP activation', 'SSP enzymes', 'SSP activation', 'elevated glutathione', 'cell cycle progression', 'nucleic acid synthesis', 'phosphoserine phosphatase', 'SSP pathway', 'SSP activation', 'aberrant expression', 'SSP activation'], 'material': ['Cancer cells', 'glutamine', 'cancer cells', 'cMyc', 'cMyc', 'cMyc', 'GSH', 'PSPH', 'cMyc', 'PSPH', 'hepatocellular carcinoma', 'HCC', 'cMyc-regulated enzyme', 'cMyc', 'metabolic switch']}], 'authors': 'Haukeland John Willy; Konopski Zbigniew; Eggesbo Heidi Beate; von Volkmann Hilde Loland; Raschpichler Gabriele; Bjoro Kristian; Haaland Terese; Loberg Else Marit; Birkeland Kare', 'DOI': '10.1002/(SICI)1097-0290(19970720)55:2<348::AID-BIT12>3.0.CO;2-D', 'journal': 'Biotechnology and Bioengineering ', 'title': 'Kinetic resolution of α-methylbenzylamine with ω-transaminase screened from soil microorganisms: application of a biphasic system to overcome product inhibition'}, {'document': ['Microorganisms that are capable of (S)-enantioselective transamination of chiral amines were isolated from soil samples by selective enrichment using (S)-α-methyl-benzylamine ((S)-α-MBA) as a sole nitrogen source.  Among them, Klebsiella pneumoniae JS2F, Bacillus thuringiensis JS64, and Vibrio fluvialis JS17 showed good ω-transaminase (ω-TA) activities and the properties of the ω-TAs were investigated.  The induction level of the enzyme was strongly dependent on the nitrogen source for the strains, except for V. fluvialis JS17.  All the ω-TAs showed high enantioselectivity (E>50) toward (S)-α-MBA and broad amino donor specificities for arylic and aliph. chiral amines.  Besides pyruvate, aldehydes such as propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde showed good amino acceptor reactivities.  All the ω-TAs showed substrate inhibition by (S)-α-MBA above 200 mM.  Moreover, substrate inhibition by pyruvate above 10 mM was obsd. for ω-TA from V. fluvialis JS17.  In the case of product inhibition, acetophenone showed much greater inhibitions than L-alanine for all ω-TAs.  Comparison of the enzyme properties indicates that ω-transaminase from V. fluvialis JS17 is the best one for both kinetic resoln. and asym. synthesis to produce enantiomerically pure chiral amines.  Kinetic resoln. of sec-butylamine (20 mM) was done under reduced pressure (150 Torr) to selectively remove an inhibitory product (2-butanone) using the enzyme from V. fluvialis JS17.  Enantiomeric excess of (R)-sec-butylamine reached 94.7% after 12 h of reaction.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['amino acceptor reactivities'], 'process': ['S)-enantioselective transamination of chiral amines', 'selective enrichment', 'ω-transaminase', 'ω-TA', 'broad amino donor specificities', 'substrate inhibition', 'substrate inhibition', 'product inhibition', 'Comparison of the enzyme properties', 'kinetic resoln.', 'asym. synthesis', 'reduced pressure', 'reaction'], 'material': ['soil samples', '(S)-α-methyl-benzylamine', '(S)-α-MBA', 'nitrogen source', 'Klebsiella pneumoniae', 'Bacillus thuringiensis', 'JS64', 'Vibrio fluvialis JS17', 'ω-TAs', 'nitrogen source', 'V. fluvialis', 'ω-TAs', '(S)-α-MBA', 'arylic', 'aliph', 'pyruvate', 'aldehydes', 'propionaldehyde', 'butyraldehyde', 'ω-TAs', '(S)-α-MBA', 'pyruvate', 'ω-TA', 'V. fluvialis JS17', 'acetophenone', 'L-alanine', 'ω-TAs', 'ω-transaminase', 'V. fluvialis JS17', 'Kinetic resoln', 'sec-butylamine', '2-butanone', 'enzyme', '(R)-sec-butylamine']}], 'authors': 'Hoppe Bernd; Beck Bodo B; Milliner Dawn S', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Scandinavian journal of gastroenterology ', 'title': 'Metformin in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a randomized, controlled trial'}, {'document': ["The key regulatory enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway of the plant hormone ethylene is 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) synthase (EC 4.1.1.14).  It catalyzes the conversion of S-adenosylmethionine to ACC, the precursor of ethylene.  We isolated complementary DNA sequences, ptACC2 and ptACC4, for two distinct and differentially regulated ACC synthase mRNAs expressed in ripe tomato fruit.  The authenticity of the clones has been confirmed by expression experiments in E. coli.  The predicted size of the encoded polypeptides (54,690 and 53,519 Da) is similar to that of the primary in vitro translation products and to the proteins found in vivo.  The sequence of the gene encoding one mRNA, LE-ACC2, has been determined and its transcription initiation site defined.  Four additional genes, LE-ACC1A, LE-ACC1B, LE-ACC3 and LE-ACC4, have also been identified and the sequence of their coding regions determined.  The LE-ACC1A and LE-ACC1B genes are adjacent to each other and are convergently transcribed.  Their encoded polypeptides are 96% identical; the identity of the other polypeptides to each other varies between 50 and 70%.  The proteins predicted to be encoded by the ACC synthase genes so far cloned from tomato and zucchini contain 11 of the 12 conserved amino acid residues found in various aminotransferases involved in the binding of the substrate and the cofactor pyridoxal-5'-phosphate.  The data indicate that ACC synthase is encoded by a divergent multigene family in tomato that encodes proteins related to aminotransferases."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biosynthetic pathway'], 'process': ['synthase (', 'ACC synthase mRNAs', 'expression experiments', 'transcription initiation site', 'ACC synthase genes'], 'material': ['ethylene', '1-aminocyclopropane-1', 'ACC', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'ACC', 'ethylene', 'complementary DNA sequences', 'ptACC2', 'ptACC4', 'ripe tomato fruit', 'in vitro translation products', 'mRNA', 'LE-ACC2', 'LE-ACC1A', 'LE-ACC1B', 'LE-ACC3', 'LE-ACC4', 'LE-ACC1A', 'LE-ACC1B', 'polypeptides', 'tomato', 'zucchini', 'aminotransferases', "substrate and the cofactor pyridoxal-5'-phosphate.", 'ACC synthase', 'proteins', 'aminotransferases']}], 'authors': 'Csibi Alfredo; Lee Gina; Yoon Sang-Oh; Tong Haoxuan; Roberts Thomas M; Ilter Didem; Elia Ilaria; Fendt Sarah-Maria; Blenis John', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Kidney international ', 'title': 'The primary hyperoxalurias'}, {'document': ['The impact of acute and sublethal toxicity of arsenate on hematol., biochem., and enzymol. parameters of an Indian major carp C. catla were estd.  The median lethal concn. of sodium arsenate to the fish C. catla for 96 h was found to be 43.78 mg/L.  During acute treatment (43.78 mg/L), Hb, hematocrit (Ht), red blood cell count (RBC), white blood cell count (WBC), plasma glucose, plasma protein, and liver aspartate and alanine aminotransferase (AST and ALT) levels decreased whereas corpuscular indexes like mean cell vol. (MCV), mean cell Hb (MCH), and mean cell Hb concn. (MCHC) increased in arsenate-treated fish.  In sublethal treatment (4.378 mg/L), Hb, Ht, RBC, and plasma protein levels decreased while MCHC and plasma glucose levels increased throughout the exposure period.  A biphasic trend was noticed in WBC, MCV, MCH, and liver AST and ALT levels.  The alterations of these parameters can be effectively used as a rapid method to assess the health of fish exposed to arsenate in the aquatic environment.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['hematol., biochem., and enzymol. parameters', 'assess the health'], 'process': ['acute treatment', 'Ht', 'liver aspartate and alanine aminotransferase', 'AST', 'ALT', 'plasma glucose levels', 'liver AST and ALT levels', 'alterations of these parameters'], 'material': ['arsenate', 'Indian major carp', 'C. catla', 'sodium arsenate', 'C. catla', 'Hb', 'red blood cell count', 'RBC', 'white blood cell count', 'WBC', 'plasma glucose', 'plasma protein', 'mean cell vol.', 'mean cell Hb', 'mean cell Hb concn.', 'arsenate-treated fish', 'Hb', 'Ht', 'RBC', 'plasma protein', 'MCHC', 'WBC', 'MCV', 'MCH', 'arsenate']}], 'authors': 'Suryawan A; Hawes J W; Harris R A; Shimomura Y; Jenkins A E; Hutson S M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Current biology : CB ', 'title': 'The mTORC1/S6K1 pathway regulates glutamine metabolism through the eIF4B-dependent control of c-Myc translation'}, {'document': ["A review with numerous refs.  The genetics and mechanistic enzymol. of biotin biosynthesis have been the subject of much investigation in the last decade, owing to the interest for biotin prodn. by fermn., on the one hand, and for the design of inhibitors with potential herbicidal properties, on the other hand.  Four enzymes are involved in the synthesis of biotin from its two precursors, alanine and pimeloyl-CoA.  They are now well-characterized and the X-ray structures of the first three have been published.  8-Amino-7-oxopelargonic acid synthase is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) enzyme, very similar to other acyl-CoA α-oxoamine synthases, and its detailed mechanism has been detd.  The origin of its specific substrate, pimeloyl-CoA, however, is not completely established.  It could be produced by a modified fatty acid pathway involving a malonyl thioester as the starter.  7,8-Diaminopelargonic acid (DAPA) aminotransferase, although sharing sequence and folding homologies with other transaminases, is unique as it uses S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) as the NH2 donor.  The mechanism of dethiobiotin synthetase is also now well understood.  It catalyzes the formation of the ureido ring via a DAPA carbamate activated with ATP.  On the other hand, the mechanism of the last enzyme, biotin synthase, which has long raised a very puzzling problem, is only starting to be unraveled and appears indeed to be very complex.  Biotin.  Synthase belongs to the family of AdoMet-dependent enzymes that reductively cleave AdoMet into a deoxyadenosyl radical, and it is responsible for the homolytic cleavage of C - H bonds.  A first radical formed on dethiobiotin is trapped by the sulfur donor, which was found to be the iron-sulfur (Fe-S) center contained in the enzyme, and cyclization follows in a second step.  Two important features come from these results: (1) a new role for an Fe-S center has been revealed, and (2) biotin synthase is not only a catalyst but also a substrate for the reaction.  Lipoate synthase, which catalyzes the formation of two C - S bonds from octanoic acid, has a very high sequence similarity with biotin synthase.  Although no in vitro enzymol. has been carried out with lipoate synthase, the sequence homol. as well as the results of in vivo studies support the conclusion that both enzymes are strongly mechanistically related.  (c) 2001 Academic Press."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['of biotin biosynthesis', 'design of inhibitors', 'detailed mechanism has been detd', 'mechanism of dethiobiotin synthetase', 'mechanism of the last enzyme'], 'process': ['synthesis of biotin from its two precursors', "pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (", 'modified fatty acid pathway', 'biotin synthase', '.  ', 'reductively cleave AdoMet', 'homolytic cleavage of C - H bonds', 'cyclization', 'biotin synthase', 'in vivo studies'], 'material': ['biotin prodn', 'enzymes', 'alanine', 'pimeloyl-CoA.', 'X-ray structures', '8-Amino-7-oxopelargonic acid synthase', 'PLP', 'acyl-CoA α-oxoamine', 'pimeloyl-CoA', 'malonyl thioester', '7,8-Diaminopelargonic', 'DAPA', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'AdoMet', 'NH2 donor', 'ureido ring', 'DAPA carbamate', 'ATP', 'Biotin', 'Synthase', 'AdoMet-dependent enzymes', 'deoxyadenosyl radical', 'dethiobiotin', 'sulfur donor', 'iron-sulfur (', 'Fe-S) center', 'enzyme', 'Fe-S center', 'catalyst', 'Lipoate synthase', 'C - S bonds', 'octanoic acid', 'biotin synthase', 'in vitro enzymol', 'lipoate synthase']}], 'authors': 'Potter Michelle C; Elmer Greg I; Bergeron Richard; Albuquerque Edson X; Guidetti Paolo; Wu Hui-Qiu; Schwarcz Robert', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The American journal of clinical nutrition ', 'title': 'A molecular model of human branched-chain amino acid metabolism'}, {'document': ['A review.  Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D) is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deleterious mutations in the LIPA gene.  The age at onset and rate of progression vary greatly and this may relate to the nature of the underlying mutations.  Patients presenting in infancy have the most rapidly progressive disease, developing signs and symptoms in the first weeks of life and rarely surviving beyond 6 mo of age.  Children and adults typically present with some combination of dyslipidemia, hepatomegaly, elevated transaminases, and microvesicular hepatosteatosis on biopsy.  Liver damage with progression to fibrosis, cirrhosis and liver failure occurs in a large proportion of patients.  Elevated low-d. lipoprotein cholesterol levels and decreased high-d. lipoprotein cholesterol levels are common features, and cardiovascular disease may manifest as early as childhood.  Given that these clin. manifestations are shared with other cardiovascular, liver and metabolic diseases, it is not surprising that LAL-D is under-recognized in clin. practice.  This article provides practical guidance to lipidologists, endocrinologists, cardiologists and hepatologists on how to recognize individuals with this life-limiting disease.  A diagnostic algorithm is proposed with a view to achieving definitive diagnosis using a recently developed blood test for lysosomal acid lipase.  Finally, current management options are reviewed in light of the ongoing development of enzyme replacement therapy with sebelipase alfa (Synageva BioPharma Corp., Lexington, MA, USA), a recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase enzyme.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['practical guidance', 'how to recognize individuals with this life-limiting disease', 'achieving definitive diagnosis', 'current management options'], 'process': ['Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency', 'LAL', '-', 'D', 'microvesicular hepatosteatosis', 'Liver damage', 'cirrhosis', 'liver failure', 'Elevated low-d. lipoprotein cholesterol levels', 'decreased high-d. lipoprotein cholesterol', 'cardiovascular disease', 'enzyme replacement therapy'], 'material': ['autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease', 'LIPA', 'Children and adults', 'dyslipidemia', 'elevated transaminases', 'LAL', '-', 'diagnostic algorithm', 'recently developed blood test', 'lysosomal acid lipase', 'sebelipase', 'alfa', 'Synageva BioPharma Corp.', 'recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Hagopian, Kevork; Ramsey, Jon J.; Weindruch, Richard', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Neuropsychopharmacology : official publication of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology ', 'title': 'Reduction of endogenous kynurenic acid formation enhances extracellular glutamate, hippocampal plasticity, and cognitive behavior'}, {'document': ['Cholesteryl ester storage disease (CESD) is caused by deficient lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) activity, predominantly resulting in cholesteryl ester (CE) accumulation, particularly in the liver, spleen, and macrophages throughout the body.  The disease is characterized by microvesicular steatosis leading to liver failure, accelerated atherosclerosis and premature demise.  Although CESD is rare, it is likely that many patients are unrecognized or misdiagnosed.  Here, the findings in 135 CESD patients described in the literature are reviewed.  Diagnoses were based on liver biopsies, LAL deficiency and/or LAL gene (LIPA) mutations.  Hepatomegaly was present in 99.3% of patients; 74% also had splenomegaly.  When reported, most patients had elevated serum total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, and transaminases (AST, ALT, or both), while HDL-cholesterol was decreased.  All 112 liver biopsied patients had the characteristic pathology, which is progressive, and includes microvesicular steatosis, which leads to fibrosis, micronodular cirrhosis, and ultimately to liver failure.  Pathognomonic birefringent CE crystals or their remnant clefts were observed in hepatic cells.  Extrahepatic manifestations included portal hypertension, esophageal varices, and accelerated atherosclerosis.  Liver failure in 17 reported patients resulted in liver transplantation and/or death.  Genotyping identified 31 LIPA mutations in 55 patients; 61% of mutations were the common exon 8 splice-junction mutation (E8SJM(-1G>A)), for which 18 patients were homozygous.  Genotype/phenotype correlations were limited; however, E8SJM(-1G>A) homozygotes typically had early-onset, slowly progressive disease.  Supportive treatment included cholestyramine, statins, and, ultimately, liver transplantation.  Recombinant LAL replacement was shown to be effective in animal models, and recently, a phase I/II clinical trial demonstrated its safety and indicated its potential metabolic efficacy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Pathognomonic birefringent CE crystals', 'Genotype/phenotype correlations', 'potential metabolic efficacy'], 'process': ['Cholesteryl ester storage disease', 'CESD', 'deficient lysosomal acid lipase', 'LAL', 'accumulation,', 'microvesicular steatosis', 'liver failure', 'CESD', 'CESD', 'liver biopsies', 'LAL deficiency', 'LAL gene', 'LIPA', 'Hepatomegaly', 'AST', 'microvesicular steatosis', 'fibrosis', 'micronodular cirrhosis', 'liver failure', 'portal hypertension', 'accelerated atherosclerosis', 'Liver failure', 'liver transplantation', 'Genotyping', 'LIPA mutations', 'common exon 8 splice-junction mutation', 'E8SJM(-1G', 'liver transplantation'], 'material': ['cholesteryl ester', 'CE', 'liver', 'spleen', 'macrophages', 'HDL', 'hepatic cells', 'esophageal varices', 'Supportive treatment', 'cholestyramine', 'statins', 'Recombinant LAL', 'phase I/II clinical trial']}], 'authors': 'Sun Linchong; Wu Gongwei; Wang Yinghui; Liu Zhaoji; Zhong Xiuying; He Xiaoping; Shen Shengqi; Gao Ping; Zhang Huafeng; Song Libing; et al', 'DOI': '10.1016/S0531-5565(02)00202-4', 'journal': 'Experimental Gerontology ', 'title': 'Caloric restriction increases gluconeogenic and transaminase enzyme activities in mouse liver'}, {'document': ['Genetic code differences prevent expression of nuclear genes within Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondria.  To bridge this gap a synthetic gene, ARG8m, designed to specify an arginine biosynthetic enzyme when expressed inside mitochondria, has been inserted into yeast mtDNA in place of the COX3 structural gene.  This mitochondrial cox3::ARG8m gene fully complements a nuclear arg8 deletion at the level of cell growth, and it is dependent for expression upon nuclear genes that encode subunits of the COX3 mRNA-specific translational activator.  Thus, cox3::ARG8m serves as a mitochondrial reporter gene.  Measurement of cox3::ARG8m expression at the levels of steady-state protein and enzymatic activity reveals that glucose repression operates within mitochondria.  The levels of this reporter vary among strains whose nuclear genotypes lead to under- and overexpression of translational activator subunits, in particular Pet494p, indicating that mRNA-specific translational activation is a rate-limiting step in this organellar system.  Whereas the steady-state level of cox3::ARG8m mRNA was also glucose repressed in an otherwise wild-type strain, absence of translational activation led to essentially repressed mRNA levels even under derepressing growth conditions.  Thus, the mRNA is stabilized by translational activation, and variation in its level may be largely due to modulation of translation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prevent expression of nuclear genes'], 'process': ['Genetic code differences', 'glucose repression', 'translational activation', 'glucose repressed', 'translational activation', 'translational activation', 'modulation of translation'], 'material': ['Saccharomyces cerevisiae', 'synthetic gene', 'ARG8', 'm', 'arginine biosynthetic enzyme', 'yeast mtDNA', 'COX3 structural gene', 'mitochondrial cox3::ARG8m gene', 'nuclear genes', 'COX3 mRNA-specific translational activator', 'cox3::ARG8', 'm', 'mitochondrial reporter gene', 'mitochondria', 'translational activator subunits', 'Pet494p', 'cox3::ARG8m mRNA', 'wild-type strain', 'mRNA']}], 'authors': 'Shin, Jong-Shik; Kim, Byung-Gee', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cell research ', 'title': 'cMyc-mediated activation of serine biosynthesis pathway is critical for cancer progression under nutrient deprivation conditions'}, {'document': ["The genome of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) frequently contains deletions of tumour suppressor gene loci, most notably SMAD4, which is homozygously deleted in nearly one-third of cases.  As loss of neighbouring housekeeping genes can confer collateral lethality, we sought to determine whether loss of the metabolic gene malic enzyme 2 (ME2) in the SMAD4 locus would create cancer-specific metabolic vulnerability upon targeting of its paralogous isoform ME3.  The mitochondrial malic enzymes (ME2 and ME3) are oxidative decarboxylases that catalyse the conversion of malate to pyruvate and are essential for NADPH regeneration and reactive oxygen species homeostasis.  Here we show that ME3 depletion selectively kills ME2-null PDAC cells in a manner consistent with an essential function for ME3 in ME2-null cancer cells.  Mechanistically, integrated metabolomic and molecular investigation of cells deficient in mitochondrial malic enzymes revealed diminished NADPH production and consequent high levels of reactive oxygen species.  These changes activate AMP activated protein kinase (AMPK), which in turn directly suppresses sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1)-directed transcription of its direct targets including the BCAT2 branched-chain amino acid transaminase 2) gene.  BCAT2 catalyses the transfer of the amino group from branched-chain amino acids to α-ketoglutarate (α-KG) thereby regenerating glutamate, which functions in part to support de novo nucleotide synthesis.  Thus, mitochondrial malic enzyme deficiency, which results in impaired NADPH production, provides a prime 'collateral lethality' therapeutic strategy for the treatment of a substantial fraction of patients diagnosed with this intractable disease."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['create cancer-specific metabolic vulnerability', 'reactive oxygen species homeostasis', "prime 'collateral lethality' therapeutic strategy", 'treatment of a substantial fraction of patients diagnosed with this intractable disease'], 'process': ['loss of neighbouring housekeeping genes', 'loss of the metabolic gene', 'malic enzyme', 'oxidative decarboxylases', 'NADPH regeneration', 'depletion selectively', 'integrated metabolomic and molecular investigation', 'NADPH production', 'activate AMP activated protein kinase', 'AMPK', 'suppresses sterol regulatory element-binding protein', 'transfer of the amino group', 'support de novo nucleotide synthesis', 'mitochondrial malic enzyme deficiency', 'impaired NADPH production'], 'material': ['pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma', 'PDAC', 'SMAD4', 'ME2', 'SMAD4 locus', 'ME3', 'mitochondrial malic enzymes', 'ME2', 'ME3', 'malate', 'pyruvate', 'ME3', 'ME2-null PDAC cells', 'ME3', 'ME2-null cancer cells', 'mitochondrial malic enzymes', 'reactive oxygen species', 'BCAT2', 'BCAT2', 'branched-chain amino acids', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'α-KG', 'glutamate']}], 'authors': 'Rottmann W H; Peter G F; Oeller P W; Keller J A; Shen N F; Nagy B P; Taylor L P; Campbell A D; Theologis A', 'DOI': '10.1271/bbb.65.1782', 'journal': 'Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Comparison of the ω-transaminases from different microorganisms and application to production of chiral amines'}, {'document': ['Activities of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase in the livers of two patients with primary hyperoxaluria type I were substantially lower than those found in five control human livers.  Detailed subcellular fractionation of one of the hyperoxaluric livers, compared with a control liver, showed that there was a complete absence of peroxisomal alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase.  This enzyme deficiency explains most of the biochemical characteristics of the disease and means that primary hyperoxaluria type I should be added to the rather select list of peroxisomal disorders.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['primary hyperoxaluria type', 'subcellular fractionation', 'enzyme deficiency', 'peroxisomal disorders'], 'material': ['alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'hyperoxaluric livers', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'primary hyperoxaluria']}], 'authors': 'Kavitha, Chokkalingam; Malarvizhi, Annamalai; Senthil Kumaran, Satyanarayanan; Ramesh, Mathan', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of molecular biology ', 'title': '1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase in tomato is encoded by a multigene family whose transcription is induced during fruit and floral senescence'}, {'document': ['The bacterial ω-transaminase from Chromobacterium violaceum (Cv-ωTA, EC 2.6.1.18) catalyzes industrially important transamination reactions by use of the coenzyme pyridoxal 5\'-phosphate (PLP).  Here, we present four crystal structures of Cv-ωTA: two in the apo form, one in the holo form and one in an intermediate state, at resolns. between 1.35 and 2.4 Å.  The enzyme is a homodimer with a mol. mass of ∼ 100 kDa.  Each monomer has an active site at the dimeric interface that involves amino acid residues from both subunits.  The apo-Cv-ωTA structure reveals unique "relaxed" conformations of three crit. loops involved in structuring the active site that have not previously been seen in a transaminase.  Anal. of the four crystal structures reveals major structural rearrangements involving elements of the large and small domains of both monomers that reorganize the active site in the presence of PLP.  The conformational change appears to be triggered by binding of the phosphate group of PLP.  Furthermore, one of the apo structures shows a disordered "roof" over the PLP-binding site, whereas in the other apo form and the holo form the "roof" is ordered.  Comparison with other known transaminase crystal structures suggests that ordering of the "roof" structure may be assocd. with substrate binding in Cv-ωTA and some other transaminases.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['transamination reactions', 'structuring the active site', 'Anal.', 'major structural rearrangements', 'reorganize the active site in the presence', 'conformational change', 'PLP-binding site', 'Comparison', 'crystal structures', 'substrate binding'], 'material': ['bacterial ω-transaminase', 'Cv-ωTA', 'coenzyme pyridoxal', 'PLP', 'crystal structures', 'Cv-ωTA', 'apo form', 'holo form', 'homodimer', 'active site', 'amino acid residues', 'apo-Cv-ωTA', 'transaminase', 'crystal structures', 'PLP', 'phosphate group', 'PLP', 'apo structures', 'disordered "roof"', 'apo form', 'holo form', 'Cv-ωTA', 'transaminases']}], 'authors': 'Marquet, Andree; Bui, Bernadette Tse Sum; Florentin, Dominique', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.fct.2010.07.017', 'journal': 'Food and Chemical Toxicology ', 'title': 'Toxicological effects of arsenate exposure on hematological, biochemical and liver transaminases activity in an Indian major carp, Catla catla'}, {'document': ['Drug-induced hepatotoxicity is the leading cause of acute liver failure (ALF) in the US and the most common adverse event causing drug non-approval and drug withdrawal by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).  Three different nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been withdrawn in the UK and/or the US due to hepatotoxicity (bromfenac, ibufenac, and benoxaprofen).  A systematic review of clin. trials data for these drugs was performed in an effort to identify possible early signals that could have predicted post-marketing serious hepatotoxicity.  There were very limited published data on benoxaprofen and none on ibufenac or bromfenac.  The publicly accessible archives of the FDA provided information on bromfenac.  Flu-like symptoms assocd. with hepatic enzyme elevation and a case of possible drug-related hepatocellular jaundice may in retrospect have been signals for serious hepatotoxicity in the database of 1195 subjects reviewed by the FDA.  Following approval, rates of acute liver failure for bromfenac were estd. to be in the range of 1:10 000.  In addn., the safety databases of several drugs also accessed through FDA archives have been reviewed (simvastatin, tacrine, troglitazone, and ximelagatran).  These data suggest that while ALT elevations alone do not reliably signal serious hepatotoxicity, elevated transaminases in assocn. with symptomatic hepatitis or jaundice may be predictors of an increased risk of ALF.  At present, however, pre-approval databases are generally not large enough to rule out low rates of serious hepatotoxicity.  Therefore, it remains crit. that clinicians report such cases to the FDA through the MED-WATCH system and that active post-marketing monitoring studies be used to identify potential rare cases of hepatotoxicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['identify possible early signals', 'identify potential rare cases'], 'process': ['Drug-induced hepatotoxicity', 'acute liver failure', 'ALF', 'FDA', 'hepatotoxicity', 'systematic review', 'Flu-like symptoms', 'hepatic enzyme elevation', 'serious hepatotoxicity', 'acute liver failure', 'ALT elevations', 'elevated transaminases', 'symptomatic hepatitis', 'ALF'], 'material': ['nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs', 'NSAIDs', 'bromfenac', 'ibufenac', 'benoxaprofen', 'clin. trials data', 'benoxaprofen', 'ibufenac', 'bromfenac', 'publicly accessible archives', 'bromfenac', 'bromfenac', 'safety databases', 'simvastatin', 'tacrine', 'troglitazone', 'ximelagatran', 'pre-approval databases', 'MED-WATCH system']}], 'authors': 'Guder W G; Ross B D', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Vitamins and Hormones ', 'title': 'Biosynthesis of biotin and lipoic acid'}, {'document': ['A review.  Biocatalysis has been increasingly used for pharmaceutical synthesis in an effort to make manufg. processes greener and more sustainable.  Biocatalysts that possess excellent activity, specificity, thermostability and solvent-tolerance are highly sought after to meet the requirements of practical applications.  Generating biocatalysts with these specific properties can be achieved by either discovery of novel biocatalysts or protein engineering.  Meanwhile, chemoenzymic routes have also been designed and developed for pharmaceutical synthesis on an industrial scale.  This review discusses the recent discoveries, engineering, and applications of biocatalysts for the synthesis of pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical intermediates.  Key classes of biocatalysts include reductases, oxidases, hydrolases, lyases, isomerases, and transaminases.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['make manufg. processes', 'practical applications', 'Generating biocatalysts with these specific properties', 'discovery of novel biocatalysts', 'synthesis of pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical intermediates'], 'process': ['pharmaceutical synthesis', 'activity', 'specificity', 'thermostability', 'protein engineering', 'chemoenzymic routes', 'pharmaceutical synthesis'], 'material': ['Biocatalysis', 'Biocatalysts', 'biocatalysts', 'reductases', 'oxidases', 'hydrolases', 'lyases', 'isomerases', 'transaminases']}], 'authors': 'Reiner, Zeljko; Guardamagna, Ornella; Nair, Devaki; Soran, Handrean; Hovingh, Kees; Bertolini, Stefano; Jones, Simon; Coric, Marijana; Calandra, Sebastiano; Hamilton, John; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Kidney international ', 'title': 'Enzyme distribution along the nephron'}, {'document': ['A kinetic resoln. process for the prodn. of chiral amines was developed using an enzyme-membrane reactor (EMR) and a hollow-fiber membrane contactor with (S)-specific ω-transaminases (ω-TA) from Vibrio fluvialis JS17 and Bacillus thuringiensis JS64.  The substrate soln. contg. racemic amine and pyruvate was recirculated through the EMR and inhibitory ketone product was selectively extd. by the membrane contactor until enantiomeric excess of (R)-amine exceeded 95%.  Using the reactor set-up with flat membrane reactor (10-mL working vol.), kinetic resolns. of α-methylbenzylamine (α-MBA) and 1-aminotetralin (200 mM, 50 mL) were carried out.  During the operation, concn. of ketone product, i.e., acetophenone or α-tetralone, in a substrate reservoir was maintained below 0.1 mM, suggesting efficient removal of the inhibitory ketone by the membrane contactor.  After 47 and 32.5 h of operation using 5 U/mL of enzyme, 98.0 and 95.5% ee of (R)-α-MBA and (R)-1-aminotetralin were obtained at 49.5 and 48.8% of conversion, resp.  A hollow-fiber membrane reactor (39-mL working vol.) was used for a preparative-scale kinetic resoln. of 1-aminotetralin (200 mM, 1 L).  After 133 h of operation, enantiomeric excess reached 95.6% and 14.3 g of (R)-1-aminotetralin was recovered (97.4% of yield).  Math. modeling of the EMR process including the membrane contactor was performed to evaluate the effect of residence time.  The simulation results suggest that residence time should be short to maintain the concn. of the ketone product in EMR sufficiently low so as to decrease conversion per cycle and, in turn, reduce the inhibition of the ω-TA activity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn. of chiral amines', 'preparative-scale kinetic resoln', 'reduce the inhibition of the ω-TA activity'], 'process': ['kinetic resoln. process', 'enzyme-membrane reactor', 'EMR', 'removal of the inhibitory ketone', 'conversion', 'Math. modeling', 'EMR process', 'simulation', 'decrease conversion'], 'material': ['hollow-fiber membrane contactor', '(S)-specific ω-transaminases', 'ω-TA', 'Vibrio fluvialis', 'Bacillus thuringiensis', 'soln. contg', 'racemic amine', 'pyruvate', 'EMR', 'inhibitory ketone product', 'membrane contactor', 'reactor set', 'flat membrane reactor', 'kinetic resolns', 'α-methylbenzylamine', 'α-MBA', '1-aminotetralin', 'concn.', 'ketone product', 'acetophenone', 'α-tetralone', 'substrate reservoir', '5 U/mL', 'enzyme', '(R)-α-MBA', '(R)-1-aminotetralin', 'hollow-fiber membrane reactor', '1-aminotetralin', '(R)-1-aminotetralin', 'membrane contactor', 'ketone product']}], 'authors': 'Bernstein Donna L; Hulkova Helena; Bialer Martin G; Desnick Robert J', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2014.04.003', 'journal': 'Atherosclerosis ', 'title': 'Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency - An under-recognized cause of dyslipidaemia and liver dysfunction'}, {'document': ['Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency (OTCD) is an inborn error of urea synthesis that has been considered as a model for liver-directed gene therapy.  Current treatment has failed to avert a high mortality or morbidity from hyperammonemic coma.  Restoration of enzyme activity in the liver should suffice to normalize metabolism.  An E1- and E4-deleted vector based on adenovirus type 5 and containing human OTC cDNA was infused into the right hepatic artery in adults with partial OTCD.  Six cohorts of three or four subjects received 1/2 log-increasing doses of vector from 2 x 10(9) to 6 x 10(11) particles/kg.  This paper describes the experience in all but the last subject, who experienced lethal complications.  Adverse effects included a flu-like episode and a transient rise in temperature, hepatic transaminases, thrombocytopenia, and hypophosphatemia.  Humoral responses to the vector were seen in all research subjects and a proliferative cellular response to the vector developed in apparently naive subjects.  In situ hybridization studies showed transgene expression in hepatocytes of 7 of 17 subjects.  Three of 11 subjects with symptoms related to OTCD showed modest increases in urea cycle metabolic activity that were not statistically significant.  The low levels of gene transfer detected in this trial suggest that at the doses tested, significant metabolic correction did not occur.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['avert a high mortality or morbidity', 'normalize metabolism'], 'process': ['Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency', 'OTCD', 'inborn error of urea synthesis', 'liver-directed gene therapy', 'Restoration of enzyme activity', 'flu-like episode', 'Humoral responses', 'In situ hybridization studies', 'transgene expression', 'OTCD', 'urea cycle metabolic activity', 'gene transfer', 'metabolic correction'], 'material': ['E1- and E4-deleted vector', 'adenovirus type', 'human OTC cDNA', 'right hepatic artery', 'adults with partial OTCD', 'Six cohorts of three or four subjects', '1/2 log-increasing doses', 'vector', 'hepatic transaminases', 'proliferative cellular response', 'hepatocytes', 'low levels of']}], 'authors': 'Steele D F; Butler C A; Fox T D', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of hepatology ', 'title': 'Cholesteryl ester storage disease: review of the findings in 135 reported patients with an underdiagnosed disease'}, {'document': ['Cancer cells often require glutamine for growth, thereby distinguishing them from most normal cells.  Here we show that PIK3CA mutations reprogram glutamine metabolism by upregulating glutamate pyruvate transaminase 2 (GPT2) in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells, making them more dependent on glutamine.  Compared with isogenic wild-type (WT) cells, PIK3CA mutant CRCs convert substantially more glutamine to α-ketoglutarate to replenish the tricarboxylic acid cycle and generate ATP.  Mutant p110α upregulates GPT2 gene expression through an AKT-independent, PDK1-RSK2-ATF4 signalling axis.  Moreover, aminooxyacetate, which inhibits the enzymatic activity of aminotransferases including GPT2, suppresses xenograft tumour growth of CRCs with PIK3CA mutations, but not with WT PIK3CA.  Together, these data establish oncogenic PIK3CA mutations as a cause of glutamine dependency in CRCs and suggest that targeting glutamine metabolism may be an effective approach to treat CRC patients harbouring PIK3CA mutations.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treat CRC patients'], 'process': ['PIK3CA mutations', 'reprogram glutamine metabolism', 'glutamate pyruvate transaminase', 'GPT2', 'replenish the tricarboxylic acid cycle', 'PDK1-RSK2-ATF4 signalling axis', 'inhibits the enzymatic activity', 'oncogenic PIK3CA mutations', 'targeting glutamine metabolism'], 'material': ['Cancer cells', 'glutamine', 'colorectal cancer', 'CRC', 'glutamine', 'isogenic wild-type', 'WT) cells', 'PIK3CA mutant CRCs', 'glutamine', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'ATP', 'GPT2', 'aminooxyacetate', 'GPT2', 'CRCs', 'CRCs']}], 'authors': 'Dey Prasenjit; Liao Wen-Ting; Lan Zangdao; Chen Alina; Zhao Di; Wang Y Alan; DePinho Ronald A; Dey Prasenjit; Wu Chia Chin; Gutschner Tony; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Expression of a recoded nuclear gene inserted into yeast mitochondrial DNA is limited by mRNA-specific translational activation'}, {'document': ['Understanding the neurochemical basis for cognitive function is one of the major goals of neuroscience, with a potential impact on the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of a range of psychiatric and neurological disorders.  In this review, the focus will be on a biochemical pathway that remains under-recognized in its implications for brain function, even though it can be responsible for moderating the activity of two neurotransmitters fundamentally involved in cognition - glutamate and acetylcholine.  Since this pathway - the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism - is induced by immunological activation and stress, it also stands in a unique position to mediate the effects of environmental factors on cognition and behaviour.  Targeting the pathway for new drug development could, therefore, be of value not only for the treatment of existing psychiatric conditions, but also for preventing the development of cognitive disorders in response to environmental pressures.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Understanding the neurochemical basis for cognitive function', 'prevention and treatment of a range of psychiatric and neurological disorders', 'kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism', 'treatment of existing psychiatric conditions', 'preventing the development of cognitive disorders'], 'process': ['biochemical pathway', 'immunological activation', 'Targeting the pathway for new drug development'], 'material': ['acetylcholine']}], 'authors': 'Danpure C J; Jennings P R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Nature ', 'title': 'Genomic deletion of malic enzyme 2 confers collateral lethality in pancreatic cancer'}, {'document': ['The growth of the biotrophic pathogen Cladosporium fulvum within the tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) leaf is restricted to the intercellular space.  Previous studies from this lab. have demonstrated that γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) accumulates to millimolar concns. in the apoplast during a compatible interaction.  We decided to further investigate the role of GABA during infection.  A gene encoding a required enzyme for GABA metab., GABA transaminase (Gat1), was cloned and sequenced from C. fulvum.  The predicted protein sequence of Gat1 had high homol. to other fungal GABA transaminases, particularly from Aspergillus nidulans.  In vitro expression expts. revealed Gat1 to be strongly expressed during fungal growth on both GABA and glutamate whereas nearly no expression was evident during nitrogen starvation conditions.  Expression of Gat1 was also apparent during infection, suggesting for the first time that C. fulvum actively metabolizes GABA during infection.  This indicates that the fungus may be utilizing the GABA in the apoplast as a nutrient source.  Further anal. revealed that the expression of tomato glutamate decarboxylase, the enzyme responsible for GABA synthesis, appeared appreciably higher during a compatible interaction than in the incompatible interaction.  These findings imply that the infecting fungus may alter the physiol. of the tomato leaf with the result that a source of nitrogen is supplied.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Further anal'], 'process': ['infection', 'GABA metab.', 'GABA transaminase', 'In vitro expression expts', 'fungal growth', 'nitrogen starvation conditions', 'infection', 'infection', 'utilizing the GABA', 'GABA synthesis', 'compatible interaction'], 'material': ['biotrophic pathogen', 'tomato', 'Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.', 'intercellular space', 'γ-aminobutyric', 'GABA', 'GABA', 'Gat1', 'C. fulvum', 'Gat1', 'fungal GABA', 'Aspergillus nidulans', 'Gat1', 'GABA', 'glutamate', 'Gat1', 'C. fulvum', 'GABA', 'fungus', 'apoplast', 'nutrient source', 'tomato glutamate decarboxylase', 'infecting fungus', 'tomato leaf']}], 'authors': 'Humble, Maria S.; Cassimjee, Karim E.; Haakansson, Maria; Kimbung, Yengo R.; Walse, Bjoern; Abedi, Vahak; Federsel, Hans-Jurgen; Berglund, Per; Logan, Derek T.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'FEBS letters ', 'title': 'Peroxisomal alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase deficiency in primary hyperoxaluria type I'}, {'document': ['OBJECTIVE:  To investigate the risk of hepatotoxicity after initiation of protease inhibitor-containing highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for HIV-1 infected patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV) co-infection.  DESIGN:  Retrospective study with 394 HIV-1-infected patients initiating HAART at a single university clinic.  METHODS:  Liver enzyme elevation (LEE) was defined as alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase at least five times the upper limit of normal and an absolute increase of > 100 U/l.  Relative risks for time to LEE were estimated using Cox proportional hazards models.  RESULTS:  Of 394 patients 7% were hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive and 14% were anti-HCV-positive.  Patients with chronic hepatitis had a higher risk for LEE compared with patients without co-infection: 37% versus 12% respectively.  After adjustment for higher baseline transaminases, the presence of HBsAg or anti-HCV remained associated with an increased risk of LEE - relative risk 2.78 (95% confidence interval, 1.50-5.16) and 2.46 (95% confidence interval, 1.43-4.24) respectively.  In patients with LEE, transaminases declined whether HAART was continued or modified.  Of patients with chronic HBV infection 38% lost HBeAg or developed anti-HBe after initiation of HAART, and one seroconverted from HBsAg-positive to anti-HBs-positive.  However, there was no clear relationship with LEE.  CONCLUSIONS:  HIV-1-infected patients co-infected with HBV or HCV were at considerably higher risk of developing LEE when HAART was initiated compared with patients without co-infection, but it is usually not necessary to modify antiretroviral therapy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['investigate the risk of hepatotoxicity', 'Retrospective study', 'Relative risks', 'LEE', 'LEE', 'LEE', 'LEE'], 'process': ['HAART', 'HAART', 'Liver enzyme elevation', 'LEE', 'LEE', 'Cox proportional hazards models', 'adjustment'], 'material': ['protease inhibitor-containing highly active antiretroviral therapy', 'chronic hepatitis B virus', 'HBV', 'hepatitis C virus', 'HCV', 'single university clinic', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'hepatitis B surface antigen', 'anti-HCV-positive', 'Patients with chronic hepatitis', 'HBsAg', 'anti-HCV', 'HAART', 'chronic HBV', 'HBe', 'LEE', 'HIV-1-infected patients', 'HBV', 'HCV', 'HAART']}], 'authors': 'Goldkind, Lawrence; Laine, Loren', 'DOI': '10.1111/j.1742-4658.2012.08468.x', 'journal': 'FEBS Journal ', 'title': 'Crystal structures of the Chromobacterium violaceum ω-transaminase reveal major structural rearrangements upon binding of coenzyme PLP'}, {'document': ["Kynurenine aminotransferases (KATs) catalyze the synthesis of kynurenic acid (KYNA), an endogenous antagonist of N-methyl-D: -aspartate and alpha 7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.  Abnormal KYNA levels in human brains are implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, and other neurological disorders.  Four KATs have been reported in mammalian brains, KAT I/glutamine transaminase K/cysteine conjugate beta-lyase 1, KAT II/aminoadipate aminotransferase, KAT III/cysteine conjugate beta-lyase 2, and KAT IV/glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 2/mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase.  KAT II has a striking tertiary structure in N-terminal part and forms a new subgroup in fold type I aminotransferases, which has been classified as subgroup Iepsilon.  Knowledge regarding KATs is vast and complex; therefore, this review is focused on recent important progress of their gene characterization, physiological and biochemical function, and structural properties.  The biochemical differences of four KATs, specific enzyme activity assays, and the structural insights into the mechanism of catalysis and inhibition of these enzymes are discussed."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pathophysiology of schizophrenia', 'physiological and biochemical function', 'structural properties', 'specific enzyme activity assays', 'structural insights', 'mechanism of catalysis'], 'process': ['Kynurenine aminotransferases', 'synthesis of kynurenic acid', 'Abnormal KYNA', 'mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase', 'tertiary structure in N-terminal part'], 'material': ['KATs', 'KYNA', '-methyl-D: -aspartate and', 'alpha 7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors', 'KATs', 'KAT I/glutamine transaminase K/cysteine conjugate beta-lyase', 'KAT II/aminoadipate aminotransferase', 'KAT III/cysteine conjugate beta-lyase', 'KAT IV', '/glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase', 'KAT', 'II', 'type I aminotransferases', 'KATs', 'KATs']}], 'authors': 'Brenchley J E; Prival M J; Magasanik B', 'DOI': '10.1002/pds.1207', 'journal': 'Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety ', 'title': 'A systematic review of NSAIDs withdrawn from the market due to hepatotoxicity: lessons learned from the bromfenac experience'}, {'document': ['A large no. of xenobiotics are reported to be potentially hepatotoxic.  Free radicals generated from the xenobiotic metab. can induce lesions of the liver and react with the basic cellular constituents - proteins, lipids, RNA and DNA.  Hepatoprotective activity of aq. ethanol ext. of Zingiber officinale was evaluated against single dose of acetaminophen-induced (3 g/kg, p.o.) acute hepatotoxicity in rat.  Aq. ext. of Z. officinale significantly protected the hepatotoxicity as evident from the activities of serum transaminase and alk. phosphatase (ALP).  Serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT), serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) and ALP activities were significantly (p < 0.01) elevated in the acetaminophen alone treated animals.  Antioxidant status in liver such as activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase (GST), a phase II enzyme, and levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) were declined significantly (p < 0.01) in the acetaminophen alone treated animals (control group).  Hepatic lipid peroxidn. was enhanced significantly (p < 0.01) in the control group.  Administration of single dose of aq. ext. of Z. officinale (200 and 400 mg/kg, p.o.) prior to acetaminophen significantly declines the activities of serum transaminases and ALP.  Further the hepatic antioxidant status was enhanced in the Z. officinale plus acetaminophen treated group than the control group.  The results of the present study concluded that the hepatoprotective effect of aq. ethanol ext. of Z. officinale against acetaminophen-induced acute toxicity is mediated either by preventing the decline of hepatic antioxidant status or due to its direct radical scavenging capacity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['hepatic antioxidant status', 'hepatoprotective effect'], 'process': ['Hepatoprotective activity', 'hepatotoxicity', 'ALP', 'SGPT', 'SGOT', 'ALP', 'Antioxidant status', 'superoxide dismutase', 'CAT', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'GST', 'phase II enzyme', 'Hepatic lipid peroxidn', 'acetaminophen', 'acute toxicity', 'preventing the decline of hepatic antioxidant status', 'radical scavenging capacity'], 'material': ['Free radicals', 'xenobiotic metab', 'basic cellular constituents', 'proteins', 'lipids', 'RNA', 'aq. ethanol ext', 'Zingiber officinale', 'single dose', 'acetaminophen', 'Aq. ext', 'activities of serum transaminase', 'Serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase', 'serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase', 'acetaminophen alone treated animals', 'liver', 'SOD', 'catalase', 'reduced glutathione', 'GSH', 'acetaminophen alone treated animals', 'control group', 'single dose', 'aq. ext', 'ALP', 'aq. ethanol ext', 'acetaminophen']}], 'authors': 'Sun, Huihua; Zhang, Hongfang; Ang, Ee Lui; Zhao, Huimin', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Regulation of the synthesis of enzymes responsible for glutamate formation in Klebsiella aerogenes'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND & AIMS:  The transcription factor nuclear factor-eythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2(-/-)) is essential for protecting cells against xenobiotic and oxidative stress.  Increased oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathophysiology of many diseases including ethanol-induced liver disease.  Therefore, the role of Nrf2(-/-) in ethanol-induced liver injury was investigated.  METHODS:  Wild-type and Nrf2(-/-) mice were fed with the ethanol diet, followed by examination of liver pathology, mortality, and ethanol metabolism.  RESULTS:  Nrf2(-/-) mice displayed a dramatically increased mortality associated with liver failure when fed doses of ethanol that were tolerated by WT mice.  Nrf2(-/-) mice showed a significantly reduced ability to detoxify acetaldehyde, leading to an accumulation of the toxic metabolite.  Loss of Nrf2(-/-) caused a marked steatosis in livers of ethanol-fed mice, and Srebp1 was identified as a candidate transcription factor responsible for lipogenic enzyme induction.  Furthermore, ethanol consumption led to a progressive depletion of total and mitochondrial reduced glutathione, which was associated with more pronounced structural and functional changes to mitochondria of Nrf2(-/-) mice.  In addition, ethanol feeding elicited an aggravated inflammatory response mediated by Kupffer cells in Nrf2(-/-) mice as shown by an increased tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion and activation of the interleukin-6/Stat-3 pathway.  Together these changes lead to a vicious cycle of accumulating hepatocellular damage, ultimately leading to liver failure and death of Nrf2(-/-) mice.  CONCLUSIONS:  Our data establish a central role for Nrf2(-/-) in the protection against ethanol-induced liver injury.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['protecting cells against xenobiotic and oxidative stress', 'pathophysiology of many diseases', 'role of Nrf2(-/-)', 'liver pathology', 'accumulating hepatocellular damage', 'central role for'], 'process': ['Increased oxidative stress', 'ethanol-induced liver disease', 'ethanol-induced liver injury', 'mortality', 'ethanol metabolism', 'mortality', 'liver failure', 'steatosis in', 'lipogenic enzyme induction', 'ethanol consumption', 'depletion of total and mitochondrial reduced glutathione', 'structural and functional changes', 'ethanol feeding', 'inflammatory response', 'tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion', 'activation of the interleukin-6/Stat-3 pathway', 'liver failure and death', 'ethanol-induced liver injury'], 'material': ['transcription factor', 'Wild-type', 'Nrf2(-/-) mice', 'ethanol diet', 'ethanol', 'Nrf2(-/-) mice', 'toxic metabolite', 'ethanol', 'Srebp1', 'mitochondria', 'Kupffer cells', 'Nrf2(-/-) mice']}], 'authors': 'Shin, Jong-Shik; Kim, Byung-Gee; Liese, Andreas; Wandrey, Christian', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.bmc.2017.06.043', 'journal': 'Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry ', 'title': 'Biocatalysis for the synthesis of pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical intermediates'}, {'document': ['A DNA fragment which carries the his3 gene of Schizosaccharomyces pombe has been isolated and characterized for use as a selectable marker in transformations.  The his3 gene encodes the imidazole acetol phosphate transaminase enzyme (E.C.2.6.1.9), which is responsible for converting imidazole acetol-P to histidinol-P in step 8 of histidine biosynthesis.  The nucleotide sequences of a 2196 bp gene fragment and a corresponding cDNA clone were detd.  Three intron sequences punctuate the 1451 bp coding region which generates a predicted polypeptide of 384 amino acids with a mol. mass of 42736 daltons.  Northern anal. of his3 mRNAs indicates that the transcript is approx. 1.6 kb in size.  Steady-state levels are down-regulated by nitrogen limitation but are unaffected by histidine starvation.  The deduced amino acid sequence was compared to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae HIS5, Escherichia coli HisC, and Salmonella typhimurium HisC proteins, all of which are imidazole acetol phosphate transaminases.  The S. pombe his3 protein was 49.5% identical to the S. cerevisiae HIS5 protein and 21.5% identity was found when all four proteins were compared.  The shuttle vector pBG1 was constructed by subcloning the smallest functional region of his3 and the S. pombe ars1 sequence into pUC18 for use in transformation of His3 - S. pombe strains.  New S. pombe strains in which the his3 gene was deleted have also been constructed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['converting imidazole acetol-P to histidinol-P', 'histidine biosynthesis', 'detd', 'intron sequences', 'Northern anal.', 'Steady-state levels', 'nitrogen limitation', 'histidine starvation', 'subcloning the smallest functional region', 'transformation of His3 - S. pombe strains'], 'material': ['DNA fragment', 'his3 gene', 'Schizosaccharomyces pombe', 'selectable marker', 'his3 gene', 'imidazole acetol phosphate transaminase enzyme', 'nucleotide sequences', '2196 bp gene fragment', 'cDNA clone', '1451 bp coding region', 'predicted polypeptide', '384 amino acids with a mol. mass of 42736 daltons', 'his3 mRNAs', 'deduced amino acid sequence', 'Saccharomyces cerevisiae HIS5', 'Escherichia coli HisC', 'Salmonella typhimurium HisC proteins', 'imidazole acetol phosphate transaminases', 'S. pombe his3 protein', 'S. cerevisiae HIS5 protein', 'shuttle vector', 'pBG1', 'his3', 'S. pombe ars1', 'pUC18', 'S. pombe strains', 'his3']}], 'authors': 'Raper Steven E; Yudkoff Marc; Chirmule Narendra; Gao Guang-Ping; Nunes Fred; Haskal Ziv J; Furth Emma E; Propert Kathleen J; Robinson Michael B; Magosin Susan; et al', 'DOI': '10.1002/bit.1050', 'journal': 'Biotechnology and Bioengineering ', 'title': 'Kinetic resolution of chiral amines with ω-transaminase using an enzyme-membrane reactor'}, {'document': ['Ramakrishnan, T. (Yale University, New Haven, Conn.), and Edward A.  Adelberg.  Regulatory mechanisms in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine.  II.  Identification of two operator genes.  J.  Bacteriol. 89:654-660. 1965.-A tightly clustered set of five structural genes governs the synthesis of the five enzymes of isoleucine and valine biosynthesis in Escherichia coli.  Three of the genes governing transaminase B, dehydrase, and threonine deaminase, are controlled by a single operator locus, designated oprA.  The structural gene governing the condensing enzyme is controlled by a second operator locus, designated oprB.  Both oprA and oprB have been shown to regulate structural genes which are cis, but not trans, to their own operator.  No mutations have yet been found which affect the level of reductoisomerase, but the existence of a third operator controlling the synthesis of this enzyme can be inferred.  Enzyme derepression resulting from mutations in oprA confers resistance to high levels of valine.  Derepression of the condensing enzyme resulting from mutations in oprB confers resistance to low levels of valine, and to alpha-aminobutyric acid.  The significance of these findings with respect to the valine sensitivity of E. coli strain K-12 is discussed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine', 'valine sensitivity'], 'process': ['Regulatory mechanisms', 'Identification of two operator genes', 'synthesis of the five enzymes of isoleucine and valine biosynthesis', 'dehydrase', 'threonine deaminase', 'regulate structural genes', 'synthesis of this enzyme', 'Enzyme derepression', 'Derepression of the'], 'material': ['structural genes', 'transaminase', 'single operator locus', 'oprA.', 'structural gene', 'condensing enzyme', 'second operator locus', 'oprB.', 'oprA', 'oprB', 'reductoisomerase', 'oprA', 'valine', 'condensing enzyme', 'oprB', 'valine', 'alpha-aminobutyric']}], 'authors': 'Hao Yujun; Wang Chao; Dong Bohan; Cao Bo; Feng Xiujing; Xiang Min; Conlon Ronald A; LaFramboise Thomas; Wang Zhenghe; Hao Yujun; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Human gene therapy ', 'title': 'A pilot study of in vivo liver-directed gene transfer with an adenoviral vector in partial ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency'}, {'document': ['A novel two-component system, CbrA-CbrB, was discovered in Pseudomonas aeruginosa; cbrA and cbrB mutants of strain PAO were found to be unable to use several amino acids (such as arginine, histidine and proline), polyamines and agmatine as sole carbon and nitrogen sources.  These mutants were also unable to use, or used poorly, many other carbon sources, including mannitol, glucose, pyruvate and citrate.  A 7 kb EcoRI fragment carrying the cbrA and cbrB genes was cloned and sequenced.  The cbrA and cbrB genes encode a sensor/histidine kinase (Mr 108 379, 983 residues) and a cognate response regulator (Mr 52 254, 478 residues) respectively.  The amino-terminal half (490 residues) of CbrA appears to be a sensor membrane domain, as predicted by 12 possible transmembrane helices, whereas the carboxy-terminal part shares homology with the histidine kinases of the NtrB family.  The CbrB response regulator shows similarity to the NtrC family members.  Complementation and primer extension experiments indicated that cbrA and cbrB are transcribed from separate promoters.  In cbrA or cbrB mutants, as well as in the allelic argR9901 and argR9902 mutants, the aot-argR operon was not induced by arginine, indicating an essential role for this two-component system in the expression of the ArgR-dependent catabolic pathways, including the aruCFGDB operon specifying the major aerobic arginine catabolic pathway.  The histidine catabolic enzyme histidase was not expressed in cbrAB mutants, even in the presence of histidine.  In contrast, proline dehydrogenase, responsible for proline utilization (Pru), was expressed in a cbrB mutant at a level comparable with that of the wild-type strain.  When succinate or other C4-dicarboxylates were added to proline medium at 1 mM, the cbrB mutant was restored to a Pru+ phenotype.  Such a succinate-dependent Pru+ property was almost abolished by 20 mM ammonia.  In conclusion, the CbrA-CbrB system controls the expression of several catabolic pathways and, perhaps together with the NtrB-NtrC system, appears to ensure the intracellular carbon: nitrogen balance in P. aeruginosa.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['expression of the ArgR-dependent catabolic pathways'], 'process': ['two-component system', 'CbrA', 'CbrB', 'sensor membrane domain', 'Complementation', 'primer extension experiments', 'aruCFGDB operon', 'proline dehydrogenase', 'proline utilization', 'Pru', 'succinate-dependent Pru+', 'CbrA-CbrB system', 'catabolic pathways', 'NtrB-NtrC system', 'intracellular carbon: nitrogen balance'], 'material': ['Pseudomonas aeruginosa', 'cbrA and cbrB mutants', 'arginine', 'histidine', 'proline', 'polyamines', 'agmatine', 'carbon sources', 'mannitol', 'glucose', 'pyruvate', 'citrate', '7 kb EcoRI fragment', 'cbrA and cbrB genes', 'cbrA and', 'cbrB', 'sensor/histidine kinase', 'cognate response regulator', 'amino-terminal half', '490 residues', 'CbrA', '12 possible transmembrane helices', 'carboxy-terminal part', 'histidine kinases', 'NtrB', 'CbrB response regulator', 'NtrC family members', 'cbrA', 'cbrB', 'cbrA', 'cbrB', 'aot-argR operon', 'major aerobic arginine catabolic pathway', 'histidine catabolic enzyme', 'histidase', 'cbrAB mutants', 'histidine', 'cbrB mutant', 'succinate', 'C4-dicarboxylates', 'proline medium', 'cbrB mutant', 'ammonia', 'P. aeruginosa']}], 'authors': 'Stone Trevor W; Darlington L Gail', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Nature communications ', 'title': 'Oncogenic PIK3CA mutations reprogram glutamine metabolism in colorectal cancer'}, {'document': ["Ornithine aminotransferase (I), a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzyme, catalyzes the transfer of the δ-NH2 group of L-ornithine to 2-oxoglutarate, producing L-glutamate-γ-semialdehyde, which spontaneously cyclizes to pyrroline-5-carboxylate, and L-glutamate.  The crystal structure detn. of human recombinant I is described here.  As a 1st step, the structure was detd. at low resoln. (6 Å) by mol. replacement using the refined structure of dialkylglycine decarboxylase as a search model.  Crystallog. phases were then refined and extended in a step-wise fashion to 2.5 Å by cyclic averaging of the electron d. corresponding to the 3 monomers within the asym. unit.  Interpretation of the resulting map was straightforward and refinement of the model resulted in an R-factor of 17.1% (Rfree = 24.3%).  The success of the procedure demonstrated the power of real-space mol. averaging even with only 3-fold redundancy.  The α6-hexameric mol. was a trimer of intimate dimers with a monomer-monomer interface of 5500 Å2 per subunit.  The 3 dimers were related by an ∼3-fold screw axis with a translational component of 18 Å.  The monomer fold was that of a typical representative of subgroup 2 aminotransferases and very similar to those described for dialkylglycine decarboxylase from Pseudomonas cepacia and glutamate-1-semialdehyde aminomutase from Synechococcus.  It consisted of a large domain that contributed most to the subunit interface, a C-terminal small domain most distant to the 2-fold axis, and an N-terminal region that contained a helix, a loop and a 3-stranded β-meander embracing a protrusion in the large domain of the 2nd subunit of the dimer.  The large domain contained the characteristic central 7-stranded β-sheet (agfedbc) covered by 8 helixes in a typical α/β fold.  The cofactor, PLP, was bound through a Schiff base to Lys-292, located in the loop between strands f and g.  The C-terminal domain included a 4-stranded antiparallel β-sheet in contact with the large domain and 3 further helixes at the far end of the subunit.  The active sites of the dimer were ∼25 Å apart at the subunit and domain interfaces.  The conical entrances were on opposite sides of the dimer.  In the active site, Arg-180, Glu-235, and Arg-413 were probable substrate-binding residues.  Structure-based sequence comparisons with related transaminases in this work support that view."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Crystallog. phases', 'active site'], 'process': ['Ornithine aminotransferase', 'I', 'spontaneously cyclizes', 'detn', 'detd', 'low resoln. (6 Å) by mol. replacement', 'refined structure', 'search model', 'cyclic averaging', 'Interpretation', 'refinement of the model', 'Rfree', 'real-space mol. averaging', 'Structure-based sequence comparisons'], 'material': ["pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (", 'the δ-NH2 group', 'L-ornithine', '2-oxoglutarate', 'L-glutamate-γ-semialdehyde', 'pyrroline-5-carboxylate', 'L-glutamate', 'crystal structure', 'human recombinant I', 'dialkylglycine decarboxylase', '3 monomers', 'α6-hexameric mol', 'trimer of intimate dimers', 'monomer-monomer interface', 'dimers', '∼3-fold screw axis', 'monomer fold', 'subgroup 2 aminotransferases', 'dialkylglycine decarboxylase', 'glutamate-1-semialdehyde aminomutase', 'large domain', 'C-terminal small domain', 'N-terminal region', 'helix', 'loop', '3-stranded β-meander', '2nd subunit of the dimer', 'large domain', 'central 7-stranded β-sheet', 'agfedbc', '8 helixes', 'cofactor', 'PLP', 'Schiff base', 'C-terminal domain', '4-stranded antiparallel β-sheet', 'large domain', '3 further helixes', 'subunit and domain interfaces', 'dimer', 'substrate-binding residues', 'transaminases']}], 'authors': 'Solomon, Peter S.; Oliver, Richard P.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'British journal of pharmacology ', 'title': 'The kynurenine pathway as a therapeutic target in cognitive and neurodegenerative disorders'}, {'document': ['Kynurenic acid (KYNA), a metabolite of the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradation, is a neuroinhibitory agent present in the mammalian brain.  Endogenous KYNA preferentially affects the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine (alpha7nACh) receptor and, possibly, the glycine co-agonist (glycineB) site of the NMDA receptor.  Functionally relevant fluctuations in brain KYNA occur under both physiological and pathological conditions, affecting cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission.  Kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), the major biosynthetic enzyme of KYNA in the rat brain, catalyzes the irreversible formation of KYNA from its immediate bioprecursor, kynurenine.  We now purified rat kidney KAT II to homogeneity, generated a polyclonal rabbit anti-rat KAT II antibody, and purified the antibody using routine biochemical methods.  The antibody selectively recognized KAT II by Western blot analysis and in immunotitration experiments.  Used for immunocytochemistry, the antibody revealed discrete, specific staining of KAT II-positive astrocyte-like cells throughout the adult rat brain.  The presence of KAT II in astrocytes was confirmed by double fluorescence immunostaining with an antibody against the astrocyte-specific marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP).  No specific labeling was detected in neurons or microglia.  However, KAT II-positive astrocytes were intimately associated with select neuron populations, supporting a neuromodulatory role of KYNA.  Intense staining was frequently seen around brain capillaries, with astrocytic end feet contacting the capillary wall.  This may explain the rapid access of blood-derived kynurenine to KAT II-containing astrocytes.  The new anti-KAT II antibody should be useful in the further elucidation of the presumed role of KYNA in brain physiology and pathology.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['metabolite of the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradation', 'irreversible formation of KYNA', 'purified rat kidney KAT', 'neuromodulatory role', 'further elucidation of the presumed role of KYNA'], 'process': ['Kynurenine aminotransferase II', 'purified the antibody', 'Western blot analysis', 'double fluorescence immunostaining', 'glial fibrillary acidic protein'], 'material': ['Kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'neuroinhibitory agent', 'Endogenous KYNA', 'alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine', 'alpha7nACh', 'glycine co-agonist', 'glycineB', 'NMDA receptor', 'brain KYNA', 'KAT', 'II', 'major biosynthetic enzyme', 'kynurenine', 'polyclonal rabbit anti-rat KAT II', 'antibody', 'KAT', 'II', 'KAT II-positive astrocyte-like cells', 'KAT', 'II', 'astrocytes', 'GFAP', 'neurons', 'KAT II-positive astrocytes', 'select neuron populations', 'KYNA', 'brain capillaries', 'astrocytic end feet', 'blood-derived kynurenine', 'KAT II-containing astrocytes', 'anti-KAT II antibody']}], 'authors': 'den Brinker M; Wit F W; Wertheim-van Dillen P M; Jurriaans S; Weel J; van Leeuwen R; Pakker N G; Reiss P; Danner S A; Weverling G J; et al', 'DOI': '10.1007/s004250100632', 'journal': 'Planta ', 'title': 'Evidence that γ-aminobutyric acid is a major nitrogen source during Cladosporium fulvum infection of tomato'}, {'document': ['Branched-chain amino acid transaminases (BCATs) play a crucial role in the metab. of leucine, isoleucine, and valine.  They catalyze the last step of the synthesis and/or the initial step of the degrdn. of this class of amino acids.  In Arabidopsis, seven putative BCAT genes are identified by their similarity to their counterparts from other organisms.  We have now cloned the resp. cDNA sequences of six of these genes.  The deduced amino acid sequences show between 47.5% and 84.1% identity to each other and about 30% to the homologous enzymes from yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and mammals.  In addn., many amino acids in crucial positions as detd. by crystallog. analyses of BCATs from Escherichia coli and human (Homo sapiens) are conserved in the AtBCATs.  Complementation of a yeast Δbat1/Δbat2 double knockout strain revealed that five AtBCATs can function as BCATs in vivo.  Transient expression of BCAT:green fluorescent protein fusion proteins in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts shows that three isoenzymes are imported into chloroplasts (AtBCAT-2, -3, and -5), whereas a single enzyme is directed into mitochondria (AtBCAT-1).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['metab.', 'resp. cDNA sequences'], 'process': ['Branched-chain amino acid transaminases', 'BCATs', 'synthesis', 'degrdn', 'BCAT genes', 'Complementation', 'Transient expression'], 'material': ['leucine', 'isoleucine', 'valine', 'class of amino', 'deduced amino acid sequences', 'enzymes', 'yeast', 'Saccharomyces cerevisiae', 'BCATs', 'AtBCATs', 'yeast Δbat1', 'AtBCATs', 'BCATs', 'BCAT', 'green fluorescent protein fusion proteins', 'tobacco', 'Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts', 'chloroplasts', 'AtBCAT-2', 'mitochondria', 'AtBCAT-1']}], 'authors': 'Han Qian; Cai Tao; Tagle Danilo A; Li Jianyong', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'AIDS ', 'title': 'Hepatitis B and C virus co-infection and the risk for hepatotoxicity of highly active antiretroviral therapy in HIV-1 infection'}, {'document': ['Primary hyperoxaluria Type 1 is a rare autosomal recessive inborn error of glyoxylate metabolism, caused by a deficiency of the liver-specific enzyme alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase.  The disorder results in overproduction and excessive urinary excretion of oxalate, causing recurrent urolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis.  As glomerular filtration rate declines due to progressive renal involvement, oxalate accumulates leading to systemic oxalosis.  The diagnosis is based on clinical and sonographic findings, urine oxalate assessment, enzymology and/or DNA analysis.  Early initiation of conservative treatment (high fluid intake, pyridoxine, inhibitors of calcium oxalate crystallization) aims at maintaining renal function.  In chronic kidney disease Stages 4 and 5, the best outcomes to date were achieved with combined liver-kidney transplantation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['glyoxylate metabolism', 'inhibitors of calcium oxalate crystallization', 'chronic kidney disease Stages'], 'process': ['Primary hyperoxaluria', 'deficiency of the liver-specific enzyme', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'overproduction and excessive urinary excretion', 'glomerular filtration rate', 'systemic oxalosis', 'urine oxalate assessment', 'enzymology', 'DNA analysis', 'conservative treatment', 'maintaining renal function', 'combined liver-kidney transplantation'], 'material': ['oxalate', 'oxalate', 'clinical and sonographic findings', 'high fluid intake', 'pyridoxine']}], 'authors': 'Ajith, T. A.; Hema, U.; Aswathy, M. S.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cellular and molecular life sciences : CMLS ', 'title': 'Structure, expression, and function of kynurenine aminotransferases in human and rodent brains'}, {'document': ['The enzyme activities of the valine biosynthetic pathway and their regulation have been studied in the valine-producing strain, Corynebacterium glutamicum 13032ΔilvApJC1ilvBNCD.  In this micro-organism, this pathway might involve up to five enzyme activities: acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS), acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase (AHAIR), dihydroxyacid dehydratase and transaminases B and C. For each enzyme, kinetic parameters (optimal temp., optimal pH and affinity for substrates) were detd.  The first enzyme of the pathway, AHAS, was shown to exhibit a weak affinity for pyruvate (Km=8.3 mM).  It appeared that valine and leucine inhibited the three first steps of the pathway (AHAS, AHAIR and DHAD).  Moreover, the AHAS activity was inhibited by isoleucine.  Considering the kinetic data collected during this work, AHAS would be a key enzyme for further strain improvement intending to increase the valine prodn. by C. glutamicum.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enzyme activities', 'valine biosynthetic pathway'], 'process': ['increase the valine prodn'], 'material': ['valine-producing strain', 'Corynebacterium glutamicum 13032ΔilvApJC1ilvBNCD', 'acetohydroxy acid synthase', 'AHAS', 'acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase', 'AHAIR', 'dihydroxyacid dehydratase', 'transaminases', 'enzyme', 'kinetic parameters', 'AHAS', 'pyruvate', 'valine', 'leucine', 'AHAS', 'AHAIR', 'DHAD', 'AHAS', 'isoleucine', 'kinetic data', 'AHAS', 'C. glutamicum']}], 'authors': 'Lamle Jutta; Marhenke Silke; Borlak Jurgen; von Wasielewski Reinhard; Eriksson C J Peter; Geffers Robert; Manns Michael P; Yamamoto Masayuki; Vogel Arndt', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.fct.2007.06.001', 'journal': 'Food and Chemical Toxicology ', 'title': 'Zingiber officinale Roscoe prevents acetaminophen-induced acute hepatotoxicity by enhancing hepatic antioxidant status'}, {'document': ['Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is characterized by inflammatory liver damage and is associated with a high risk of development of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.  Although histological examination of liver biopsies is currently the gold standard for the detection of early liver damage, there is a strong need for better noninvasive methods.  We recently demonstrated that the proapoptotic activation of caspases is considerably enhanced in histological sections from HCV-infected liver tissue, suggesting an important role of apoptosis in liver damage.  Here, we investigated whether caspase activation is detectable also in sera from patients with chronic HCV infection.  Using a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay that selectively recognizes a proteolytic neoepitope of the caspase substrate cytokeratin-18, we demonstrate that caspase activity is markedly increased in the sera of HCV patients.  Interestingly, while 27% of patients with chronic HCV infection showed normal aminotransferase levels despite inflammatory and fibrotic liver damage, more than 50% of those patients exhibited already elevated serum caspase activity.  Moreover, 30% of patients with normal aminotransferase but elevated caspase activity revealed higher stages of fibrosis.  In conclusion, compared with conventional surrogate markers such as aminotransferases, detection of caspase activity in serum might be a more sensitive method of detecting early liver injury.  Thus, measurement of caspase activity might provide a novel diagnostic tool, especially for patients with normal aminotransferases but otherwise undiagnosed histologically active hepatitis and progressive fibrosis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['detection of early liver damage', 'detecting early liver injury'], 'process': ['inflammatory liver damage', 'histological examination', 'noninvasive methods', 'proapoptotic activation of caspases', 'apoptosis', 'liver damage', 'caspase activation', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay', 'caspase activity', 'inflammatory and fibrotic liver damage', 'serum caspase activity', 'caspase activity', 'fibrosis', 'detection of caspase activity', 'measurement of caspase activity', 'progressive fibrosis'], 'material': ['Chronic hepatitis C virus', 'HCV', 'liver biopsies', 'histological sections', 'HCV-infected liver tissue', 'sera from patients with chronic HCV infection', 'proteolytic neoepitope', 'caspase substrate', 'cytokeratin-18', 'HCV patients', 'conventional surrogate markers', 'diagnostic tool']}], 'authors': 'Burke, John D.; Gould, Kathleen L.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Gastroenterology ', 'title': 'Nuclear factor-eythroid 2-related factor 2 prevents alcohol-induced fulminant liver injury'}, {'document': ['In a wild-type strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae the tryptophan analogue dl-5-methyl-tryptophan (5MT) causes only a slight reduction of the growth rate.  Uptake experiments indicate that the limited inhibition is partly due to low levels of 5MT inside the cell.  On the other hand, this low concentration of 5MT leads to an increase in the activity of the tryptophan-biosynthetic enzymes.  Evidence is presented that suggests that 5MT acts primarily through feedback inhibition of anthranilate synthase, the first enzyme of the pathway.  A number of 5MT-sensitive mutants have been isolated, characterized, and assigned to one of the following three classes: class I, strains with altered activity and/or feedback sensitivity of anthranilate synthase; class II, strains with elevated uptake of 5MT; class III, mutants with altered regulation of the tryptophan-biosynthetic enzymes, which do not exhibit increases in activity in the presence of 5MT.  This failure to exhibit increased enzyme activities in mutants of class III can also be observed after tryptophan starvation.  Two mutants of class III show high sensitivity towards 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole.  They can not exhibit derepression of some histidine- and arginine-biosynthetic enzymes under conditions that lead to an increase in these same enzymes in the wild-type strain.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Uptake experiments', 'low concentration', 'feedback inhibition', 'elevated uptake of 5MT', 'tryptophan-biosynthetic enzymes', 'do not exhibit increases in activity in the presence of', 'tryptophan starvation'], 'material': ['wild-type strain', 'tryptophan analogue', 'dl-5-methyl', '5MT', 'low levels of', '5MT', '5MT', 'tryptophan-biosynthetic enzymes', '5MT', 'anthranilate synthase', '5MT-sensitive mutants', 'anthranilate synthase', '5MT', '3-amino-1,2,4-triazole', 'enzymes', 'wild-type strain']}], 'authors': 'RAMAKRISHNAN T; ADELBERG E A', 'DOI': '10.1007/BF00391010', 'journal': 'Molecular and General Genetics ', 'title': 'Molecular cloning and characterization of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe his3 gene for use as a selectable marker'}, {'document': ['The effects of wide variation of dietary protein consumption on enzyme activities of pathways directly assocd. with amino acid metabolism were studied in rats growing at similar rates.  The total liver content of all urea-cycle enzymes, i.e., carbamyl phosphate synthetase, ornithine transcarbamylase, argininosuccinate synthetase, argininosuccinate cleavage enzyme, and arginase, was directly proportional to the daily consumption of protein.  A similar relation was found for glutamic-pyruvic and glutamic-oxalacetic transaminases.  Lactic and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenases showed different patterns of change, whereas malic and glutamic dehydrogenases were not affected by changes in dietary protein.  After an acute increase in dietary concn. of protein, changes in the levels of urea-cycle enzymes were completed in 4-6 days.  Acute decreases in dietary protein resulted in net decreases of enzyme contents that were not max. until 8 days.  Purification and characterization of arginase and ornithine transcarbamylase from rat livers with widely differing activities showed no differences in responses during purification, or in pH optima, Km values, temp. coeffs., mol. wts., or turnover nos.  It is concluded that the observed differences in enzyme activities are due to differences in the actual content of specific protein rather than to an effect of activators, inhibitors, or an alteration in the kinetic properties of enzyme mols.  It is proposed that the phenomena observed on altering the protein content of the diet are analogous to changes in bacteria on alteration of the nature of the energy or N source, and that such phenomena represent an instance of adaptation in a mammalian system which involves synthesis and degradation of specific enzyme protein.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enzyme activities of pathways directly assocd. with amino acid metabolism', 'total liver content', 'Purification and characterization'], 'process': ['urea-cycle enzymes', 'Acute decreases in dietary protein', 'purification', 'enzyme', 'alteration in the kinetic properties of enzyme mols', 'altering the protein content of the diet', 'adaptation', 'synthesis and degradation of specific enzyme protein'], 'material': ['dietary protein', 'rats growing', 'carbamyl phosphate synthetase', 'ornithine transcarbamylase', 'argininosuccinate synthetase', 'argininosuccinate cleavage enzyme', 'arginase', 'protein', 'glutamic-pyruvic and glutamic-oxalacetic transaminases', 'Lactic', 'malic and glutamic dehydrogenases', 'dietary protein', 'dietary concn', 'urea-cycle enzymes', 'enzyme', 'arginase', 'ornithine transcarbamylase', 'pH optima', 'activators', 'inhibitors', 'bacteria']}], 'authors': 'Nishijyo T; Haas D; Itoh Y', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'REGULATORY MECHANISMS IN THE BIOSYNTHESIS OF ISOLEUCINE AND VALINE. II. IDENTIFICATION OF TWO OPERATOR GENES'}, {'document': ['A review, with 46 refs.  The pyrimidines, uracil and thymine, are degraded in four steps.  The first three steps of pyrimidine catabolism, controlled by enzymes shared by both pathways, result in the prodn. of the neurotransmitter amino acid β-alanine from uracil and the nonfunctional (R)-(-)-β-aminoisobutyrate from thymine.  The fourth step is controlled by several aminotransferases, which have different affinities for β-alanine, β-aminoisobutyrate and GABA.  Defects concerning the first three steps all lead to a reduced prodn. of β-alanine; defects of the transaminases involving the metab. of β-alanine and GABA lead to accumulation of these neurotransmitter substances.  In addn., other metabolites will accumulate or be reduced depending on the specific enzyme defect.  Anal. of the abnormal concns. of these metabolites in the body fluids is essential for the detection of patients with pyrimidine degrdn. defects.  Clin. these disorders are often overlooked because symptomatol. is highly aspecific.  The growth in our knowledge concerning inborn errors of pyrimidine degrdn. has emphasized the importance of the clin. awareness of these defects as a possible cause of neurol. disease and a contraindication for treatment of cancer patients with certain pyrimidine analogs.  The various defects are discussed and attention is paid to clin., genetic and diagnostic aspects.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Anal. of the abnormal concns', 'detection of patients with pyrimidine degrdn', 'defects.  Clin', 'clin. awareness of these defects', 'neurol. disease', 'clin., genetic and diagnostic aspects'], 'process': ['pyrimidine catabolism', 'prodn', 'Defects concerning the first three steps', 'reduced prodn. of β-alanine', 'defects of the', 'transaminases involving the metab. of β-alanine', 'accumulation of these neurotransmitter substances', 'addn'], 'material': ['pyrimidines', 'uracil', 'thymine', 'enzymes', 'neurotransmitter amino acid', 'uracil', 'nonfunctional (R)-(-)-β-aminoisobutyrate', 'thymine', 'aminotransferases', 'β-alanine', 'β-aminoisobutyrate', 'GABA', 'GABA', 'metabolites', 'body fluids', 'pyrimidine analogs']}], 'authors': 'White R J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular microbiology ', 'title': 'The CbrA-CbrB two-component regulatory system controls the utilization of multiple carbon and nitrogen sources in Pseudomonas aeruginosa'}, {'document': ['PURPOSE:  Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is an antibody-drug conjugate comprising trastuzumab and DM1, a microtubule polymerization inhibitor, covalently bound via a stable thioether linker.  To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of T-DM1 in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer, data from four studies (TDM3569g, TDM4258g, TDM4374g, and TDM4688g) of single-agent T-DM1 administered at 3.6 mg/kg every 3 weeks (q3w) were assessed in aggregate.  METHODS:  Multiple analytes-T-DM1, total trastuzumab (TT), DM1, and key metabolites-were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays or liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.  PK parameters of T-DM1, TT, and DM1 exposure were calculated using standard noncompartmental approaches and correlated to efficacy (objective response rate) and safety (platelet counts, hepatic transaminase concentrations).  Immunogenicity was evaluated by measuring anti-therapeutic antibodies (ATA) to T-DM1 after repeated dosing using validated bridging antibody electrochemiluminescence or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays.  RESULTS:  PK parameters for T-DM1, TT, and DM1 were consistent across studies at cycle 1 and steady state.  T-DM1 PK was not affected by residual trastuzumab from prior therapy or circulating extracellular domain of HER2.  No significant correlations were observed between T-DM1 exposure and efficacy, thrombocytopenia, or increased concentrations of transaminases.  Across the studies, ATA formation was detected in 4.5% (13/286) of evaluable patients receiving T-DM1 q3w.  CONCLUSIONS:  The PK profile of single-agent T-DM1 (3.6 mg/kg q3w) is predictable, well characterized, and unaffected by circulating levels of HER2 extracellular domain or residual trastuzumab.  T-DM1 exposure does not correlate with clinical responses or key adverse events.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['characterize the pharmacokinetics'], 'process': ['PK', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays', 'liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry', 'TT', 'efficacy', 'safety', 'Immunogenicity', 'dosing', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays', 'efficacy', 'thrombocytopenia', 'increased concentrations of transaminases', 'ATA formation', 'PK profile'], 'material': ['Trastuzumab emtansine', 'T-DM1', 'antibody-drug conjugate', 'trastuzumab', 'DM1', 'microtubule polymerization inhibitor', 'stable thioether linker', 'T-DM1', 'human epidermal growth factor receptor 2', 'TDM3569', 'TDM4258', 'TDM4374', 'TDM4688', 'single-agent T-DM1', 'Multiple analytes', 'T-DM1', 'total trastuzumab', 'TT', 'DM1', 'key metabolites', 'PK parameters', 'standard noncompartmental approaches', 'hepatic transaminase concentrations', 'anti-therapeutic antibodies', 'ATA', 'T-DM1', 'validated bridging antibody electrochemiluminescence', 'PK parameters', 'T-DM1', 'TT', 'DM1', 'trastuzumab', 'circulating extracellular domain of HER2', 'T-DM1', 'single-agent T-DM1', 'HER2 extracellular domain', 'trastuzumab', 'T-DM1', 'clinical responses']}], 'authors': 'Shen, Betty W.; Hennig, Michael; Hohenester, Erhard; Jansonius, Johan N.; Schirmer, Tilman', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Control of amino sugar metabolism in Escherichia coli and isolation of mutants unable to degrade amino sugars'}, {'document': ['In the search for new drug targets, we evaluated the biotin synthetic pathway of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) and constructed an Mtb mutant lacking the biotin biosynthetic enzyme 7,8-diaminopelargonic acid synthase, BioA.  In biotin-free synthetic media, ΔbioA did not produce wild-type levels of biotinylated proteins, and therefore did not grow and lost viability. ΔbioA was also unable to establish infection in mice.  Conditionally-regulated knockdown strains of Mtb similarly exhibited impaired bacterial growth and viability in vitro and in mice, irrespective of the timing of transcriptional silencing.  Biochemical studies further showed that BioA activity has to be reduced by approximately 99% to prevent growth.  These studies thus establish that de novo biotin synthesis is essential for Mtb to establish and maintain a chronic infection in a murine model of TB.  Moreover, these studies provide an experimental strategy to systematically rank the in vivo value of potential drug targets in Mtb and other pathogens.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['search for new drug targets', 'biotin synthetic pathway', 'systematically rank the in vivo value of potential drug targets'], 'process': ['biotin biosynthetic enzyme', 'establish infection in mice', 'transcriptional silencing', 'Biochemical studies', 'de novo biotin synthesis'], 'material': ['Mtb', 'Mtb mutant', '7,8-diaminopelargonic acid synthase', 'BioA.', 'biotin-free synthetic media', 'ΔbioA', 'ΔbioA', 'Conditionally-regulated knockdown strains', 'Mtb', 'BioA', 'Mtb', 'murine model', 'Mtb']}], 'authors': 'Guidetti Paolo; Hoffman Gloria E; Melendez-Ferro Miguel; Albuquerque Edson X; Schwarcz Robert', 'DOI': '10.1006/jmbi.1997.1583', 'journal': 'Journal of Molecular Biology ', 'title': ' Growth of Escherichia coli on glucosamine results in an induction of glucosamine 6-phosphate deaminase [2-amino-2-deoxy-d-glucose 6-phosphate ketol-isomerase (deaminating), EC 5.3.1.10] and a repression of glucosamine 6-phosphate synthetase (l-glutamine-d-fructose 6-phosphate aminotransferase, EC 2.6.1.16); glucose abolishes these control effects. 2.  Growth of E. coli on N-acetylglucosamine results in an induction of N-acetylglucosamine 6-phosphate deacetylase and glucosamine 6-phosphate deaminase, and in a repression of glucosamine 6-phosphate synthetase; glucose diminishes these control effects. 3.  The synthesis of amino sugar kinases (EC 2.7.1.8 and 2.7.1.9) is unaffected by growth on amino sugars. 4.  Glucosamine 6-phosphate synthetase is inhibited by glucosamine 6-phosphate. 5.  Mutants of E. coli that are unable to grow on N-acetylglucosamine have been isolated, and lack either N-acetylglucosamine 6-phosphate deacetylase (deacetylaseless) or glucosamine 6-phosphate deaminase (deaminaseless).  Deacetylaseless mutants can grow on glucosamine but deaminaseless mutants cannot. 6.  After growth on glucose, deacetylaseless mutants have a repressed glucosamine 6-phosphate synthetase and a super-induced glucosamine 6-phosphate deaminase; this may be related to an intracellular accumulation of acetylamino sugar that also occurs under these conditions.  In one mutant the acetylamino sugar was shown to be partly as N-acetylglucosamine 6-phosphate.  Deaminaseless mutants have no abnormal control effects after growth on glucose. 7.  Addition of N-acetylglucosamine or glucosamine to cultures of a deaminaseless mutant caused inhibition of growth.  Addition of N-acetylglucosamine to cultures of a deacetylaseless mutant caused lysis, and secondary mutants were isolated that did not lyse; most of these secondary mutants had lost glucosamine 6-phosphate deaminase and an uptake mechanism for N-acetylglucosamine. 8.  Similar amounts of (14)C were incorporated from [1-(14)C]-glucosamine by cells of mutants and wild-type growing on broth.  Cells of wild-type and a deaminaseless mutant incorporated (14)C from N-acetyl[1-(14)C]glucosamine more efficiently than from N[1-(14)C]-acetylglucosamine, incorporation from the latter being further decreased by acetate; cells of a deacetylaseless mutant showed a poor incorporation of both types of labelled N-acetylglucosamine.'}, {'document': ["Cold ischemia/warm reperfusion (CI/WR) injury remains a problem in liver transplantation.  The aim of the current study was to assess the utility of the pan-caspase inhibitor IDN-6556 on CI/WR injury during human liver transplantation.  This report is a post hoc analysis of a Phase II, multi-center, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, parallel group study.  Subjects were assigned to four treatment groups: Group 1 (Organ storage/flush: Placebo-Recipient: Placebo); Group 2 (Organ storage/flush: 15 microg/mL-Recipient: Placebo); Group 3 (Organ storage/flush: 5 microg/mL-Recipient: 0.5 mg/kg); and Group 4 (Organ storage/flush: 15 microg/mL-Recipient: 0.5 mg/kg).  Liver cell apoptosis was assessed by serum concentrations of the apoptosis-associated CK18Asp396 ('M30') neo-epitope, TUNEL assay and caspase 3/7 immunohistochemistry.  Liver injury was assessed by serum AST/ALT determinations.  Serum markers of liver cell apoptosis were reduced in all groups receiving drug as compared to placebo.  However, TUNEL, caspase 3/7 positive cells and serum AST/ALT levels were only consistently reduced in Group 2 (drug exposed to organ only).  This reduction in serum transaminases was significant and observed across the study.  In conclusion, IDN-6556 when administered in cold storage and flush solutions during liver transplantation offers local therapeutic protection against CI/WR-mediated apoptosis and injury.  However, larger studies are required to confirm these observations."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Phase II, multi-center, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, parallel group study', 'local therapeutic protection'], 'process': ['Cold ischemia/warm reperfusion', 'CI', 'WR', 'liver transplantation', 'post hoc analysis', 'Organ storage/flush', 'Liver cell apoptosis', 'TUNEL assay', 'caspase 3/7 immunohistochemistry', 'Liver injury', 'liver cell apoptosis', 'TUNEL', 'reduction in serum transaminases', 'liver transplantation'], 'material': ['pan-caspase inhibitor', 'IDN-6556', 'Organ storage/flush', 'Placebo-Recipient', 'Organ storage/flush', 'Organ storage/flush', 'serum concentrations', 'apoptosis-associated', 'Serum markers', 'placebo', 'caspase 3/7 positive cells', 'drug exposed to organ', 'IDN-6556', 'cold storage and flush solutions', 'CI/WR-mediated apoptosis and injury', 'larger studies']}], 'authors': 'Diebold, Ruth; Schuster, Joachim; Daschner, Klaus; Binder, Stefan', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Glia ', 'title': 'Crystal structure of human recombinant ornithine aminotransferase'}, {'document': ['A new term, autogenous regulation, is used to describe a phenomenon that is not a new discovery but rather is newly appreciated as a mechanism common to a number of systems in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms.  In this mechanism the product of a structural gene regulates expression of the operon in which that structural gene resides.  In many (perhaps all) cases, the regulatory gene product has several functions, since it may act not only as a regulatory protein but also as an enzyme, structural protein, or antibody, for example.  In a few cases, this protein is the multimeric allosteric enzyme that catalyzes the first step of a metabolic pathway, gearing together the two most important mechanisms for controlling the biosynthesis of metabolites in bacterial cells-feedback inhibition and repression.  Autogenous regulation may provide a mechanism for amplification of gene expression (84); for severe and prolonged inactivation of gene expression (85); for buffering the response of structural genes to changes in the environment (45, 52); and for maintaining a constant intracellular concentration of a protein, independent of cell size or growth rate (86).  Thus, autogenous regulation provides the cell with means for accomplishing a number of different regulatory tasks, each suited to better satisfying the needs of the organism for its survival.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['the regulatory gene product', 'metabolic pathway', 'controlling the biosynthesis of metabolites', 'amplification of gene expression'], 'process': ['autogenous regulation', 'feedback inhibition and repression', 'Autogenous regulation', 'buffering the response of structural genes', 'autogenous regulation'], 'material': ['structural gene', 'structural gene', 'regulatory protein', 'enzyme', 'structural protein', 'antibody', 'multimeric allosteric enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Cochat Pierre; Hulton Sally-Anne; Acquaviva Cecile; Danpure Christopher J; Daudon Michel; De Marchi Mario; Fargue Sonia; Groothoff Jaap; Harambat Jerome; Hoppe Bernd; et al', 'DOI': '10.1104/pp.001602', 'journal': 'Plant Physiology ', 'title': 'Astrocytic localization of kynurenine aminotransferase II in the rat brain visualized by immunocytochemistry'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common causes of cancer death throughout the world.  In this work our aim was to study the role of the phosphoserine aminotransferase PSAT1 in colorectal cancer development.  RESULTS:  We first observed that PSAT1 is overexpressed in colon tumors.  In addition, we showed that after drug treatment, PSAT1 expression level in hepatic metastases increased in non responder and decreased in responder patients.  In experiments using human cell lines, we showed that ectopic PSAT1 overexpression in colon carcinoma SW480 cell line resulted in an increase in its growth rate and survival.  In addition, SW480-PSAT1 cells presented a higher tumorigenic potential than SW480 control cells in xenografted mice.  Moreover, the SW480-PSAT1 cell line was more resistant to oxaliplatin treatment than the non-transfected SW480 cell line.  This resistance resulted from a decrease in the apoptotic response and in the mitotic catastrophes induced by the drug treatment.  CONCLUSION:  These results show that an enzyme playing a role in the L-serine biosynthesis could be implicated in colon cancer progression and chemoresistance and indicate that PSAT1 represents a new interesting target for CRC therapy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['study the role of the phosphoserine aminotransferase PSAT1', 'colorectal cancer development', 'colon cancer progression'], 'process': ['Colorectal cancer', 'CRC', 'drug treatment', 'ectopic PSAT1', 'increase in its growth rate and survival', 'oxaliplatin treatment', 'apoptotic response', 'mitotic catastrophes', 'drug treatment', 'L-serine biosynthesis', 'CRC therapy'], 'material': ['PSAT1', 'colon tumors', 'PSAT1', 'hepatic metastases', 'human cell lines', 'colon carcinoma', 'SW480 cell', 'SW480-PSAT1 cells', 'SW480 control cells', 'SW480-PSAT1 cell line', 'non-transfected SW480 cell line', 'enzyme', 'PSAT1']}], 'authors': 'Leyval, D.; Uy, D.; Delaunay, Stephane; Goergen, J. L.; Engasser, J. M.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Nephrology, dialysis, transplantation : official publication of the European Dialysis and Transplant Association - European Renal Association ', 'title': 'The branched-chain amino acid transaminase gene family in Arabidopsis encodes plastid and mitochondrial proteins'}, {'document': ['This retrospective cohort study investigated whether particular antiretroviral agents are associated with a higher risk for developing grade 4 liver enzyme elevations (LEEs) in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1 infection who are starting to receive highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).  Grade 4 LEE was defined as aminotransferase levels >10 times the upper limit of normal and >200 U above baseline levels.  A multivariate Cox model was used to identify risk factors.  The incidence of LEE was 6.3%.  No patients died of LEE consequences.  Risk factors were higher baseline alanine aminotransferase levels, chronic hepatitis B or C virus infection, antiretroviral therapy-naive patients undergoing their first HAART regimen, recent start of a regimen of nevirapine or high-dose ritonavir, and female sex.  In hepatitis B virus (HBV)-coinfected patients, discontinuing lamivudine (3TC) use was a risk factor.  In 97% of cases, >or=1 risk factor was present.  In HBV-coinfected patients using 3TC, continued use of 3TC should be considered, even if 3TC-resistant HIV strains develop.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Grade 4 LEE', 'identify risk factors'], 'process': ['grade 4 liver enzyme elevations', 'LEEs', 'HAART', 'aminotransferase levels', 'multivariate Cox model', 'LEE', 'alanine aminotransferase levels'], 'material': ['retrospective cohort study', 'human immunodeficiency virus', 'highly active antiretroviral therapy', 'chronic hepatitis B or C virus', 'antiretroviral therapy-naive patients', 'nevirapine', 'high-dose ritonavir', 'female sex', 'hepatitis B virus', '3TC', 'HBV-coinfected', '3TC', '3TC', '3TC-resistant HIV strains']}], 'authors': 'Bantel Heike; Lugering Andreas; Heidemann Jan; Volkmann Xandra; Poremba Christopher; Strassburg Christian P; Manns Michael Peter; Schulze-Osthoff Klaus', 'DOI': '10.1016/S0168-1656(03)00162-7', 'journal': 'Journal of Biotechnology ', 'title': 'Primary hyperoxaluria Type 1: indications for screening and guidance for diagnosis and treatment'}, {'document': ['Bacillus subtilis strain ATCC6633 has been identified as a producer of mycosubtilin, a potent antifungal peptide antibiotic.  Mycosubtilin, which belongs to the iturin family of lipopeptide antibiotics, is characterized by a beta-amino fatty acid moiety linked to the circular heptapeptide Asn-Tyr-Asn-Gln-Pro-Ser-Asn, with the second, third, and sixth position present in the D-configuration.  The gene cluster from B. subtilis ATCC6633 specifying the biosynthesis of mycosubtilin was identified.  The putative operon spans 38 kb and consists of four ORFs, designated fenF, mycA, mycB, and mycC, with strong homologies to the family of peptide synthetases.  Biochemical characterization showed that MycB specifically adenylates tyrosine, as expected for mycosubtilin synthetase, and insertional mutagenesis of the operon resulted in a mycosubtilin-negative phenotype.  The mycosubtilin synthetase reveals features unique for peptide synthetases as well as for fatty acid synthases: (i) The mycosubtilin synthase subunit A (MycA) combines functional domains derived from peptide synthetases, amino transferases, and fatty acid synthases.  MycA represents the first example of a natural hybrid between these enzyme families. (ii) The organization of the synthetase subunits deviates from that commonly found in peptide synthetases.  On the basis of the described characteristics of the mycosubtilin synthetase, we present a model for the biosynthesis of iturin lipopeptide antibiotics.  Comparison of the sequences flanking the mycosubtilin operon of B. subtilis ATCC6633, with the complete genome sequence of B. subtilis strain 168 indicates that the fengycin and mycosubtilin lipopeptide synthetase operons are exchanged between the two B. subtilis strains.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biosynthesis of mycosubtilin', 'biosynthesis of iturin lipopeptide antibiotics'], 'process': ['producer of mycosubtilin', 'peptide synthetases', 'Biochemical characterization', 'mycosubtilin synthetase', 'insertional mutagenesis', 'peptide synthetases', 'amino transferases', 'Comparison of the sequences flanking the mycosubtilin operon'], 'material': ['Bacillus subtilis strain', 'antifungal peptide antibiotic', 'Mycosubtilin', 'iturin family of lipopeptide antibiotics', 'beta-amino fatty acid moiety', 'circular heptapeptide', 'Asn-Tyr-Asn-Gln-Pro-Ser-Asn', 'gene cluster', 'putative operon', 'fenF', 'mycA', 'mycB', 'mycC', 'MycB', 'mycosubtilin synthetase', 'peptide synthetases', 'fatty acid synthases', 'mycosubtilin synthase subunit', 'MycA', 'fatty acid synthases', 'MycA', 'synthetase subunits', 'peptide synthetases', 'mycosubtilin synthetase', 'B. subtilis', 'complete genome sequence', 'fengycin', 'mycosubtilin lipopeptide synthetase operons', 'B. subtilis strains']}], 'authors': 'Schurch A; Miozzari J; Hutter R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'Characterisation of the enzyme activities involved in the valine biosynthetic pathway in a valine-producing strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum'}, {'document': ['In rats with diethylnitrosamine (DENA)-induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the authors studied in vivo gene transfer efficiency using intraportal injections of recombinant adenovirus carrying the lacZ reporter gene (AdCMVlacZ) and the therapeutic efficacy of adenovirus-mediated transfer of the thymidine kinase gene of the herpes simplex virus (HSV-tk) followed by ganciclovir (GCV) administration.  DENA was very effective in inducing HCC but also stimulated nontumor cell replication, as shown by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) staining.  The study of in vivo gene transfer efficiency in tumor-bearing rats showed that nontumor tissue and small tumor nodules were transduced effectively whereas a poor transduction rate was noted in large tumor nodules.  Concerning therapeutic efficacy, three groups of rats with established HCC were studied: group A and B received intraportally recombinant adenovirus carrying HSV-tk (AdCMVtk) or AdCMVlacZ, resp., and 2 days after GCV was given i.p. for 9 days; group C received only saline.  Of the rats from groups B and C, 100% and 93% resp., exhibited multiple HCC tumor nodules at end of the study.  In contrast, a complete regression of tumor was obsd. in 63% of animals from group A.  This group showed significant elevation of serum transaminases and a diffuse hepatotoxic lesion in liver tissue; histol. signs of regeneration were obsd. in surviving animals.  Nine out of 19 rats from group A died during the treatment period.  The authors conclude that (i) in the DENA model of HCC, tumoral cells can be destroyed in vivo by the HSV-tk/GCV system despite poor transduction of large tumor nodules, suggesting that toxic metabolites generated by nontumor cells may exert a bystander effect on tumor tissue; (ii) significant hepatoxicity and a high mortality rate occurred in HSV-tk/GCV-treated rats; these side effects appear to be due to the fact that in DENA-treated livers enhanced cell proliferation was present not only in tumor nodules but also in nontumor parenchyma, leading to GCV sensitization of both tissues; (iii) the results have implications concerning the efficacy and potential risks of the HSV-tk/GCV system in the treatment of human HCC.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['in vivo gene transfer efficiency', 'inducing HCC', 'study of in vivo gene transfer efficiency', 'Concerning therapeutic efficacy', 'histol. signs of regeneration', 'DENA model of HCC', 'efficacy and potential risks', 'treatment of human HCC'], 'process': ['hepatocellular carcinoma', 'adenovirus-mediated transfer', 'stimulated nontumor cell replication', 'proliferating cell nuclear antigen', 'enhanced cell proliferation', 'GCV sensitization'], 'material': ['diethylnitrosamine', 'HCC', 'intraportal injections', 'recombinant adenovirus', 'lacZ reporter gene', 'AdCMVlacZ', 'thymidine kinase gene', 'herpes simplex virus', 'HSV', 'tk', 'ganciclovir', 'GCV', 'DENA', 'PCNA', 'nontumor tissue', 'large tumor nodules', 'HCC', 'intraportally recombinant adenovirus', 'AdCMVtk', 'AdCMVlacZ', 'GCV', 'saline', 'HCC tumor nodules', 'serum transaminases', 'liver tissue', 'rats', 'tumoral cells', 'HSV-tk/GCV system', 'large tumor nodules', 'toxic metabolites', 'HSV-tk/GCV', 'HSV-tk/GCV']}], 'authors': 'Schimke, Robert T.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Detection of apoptotic caspase activation in sera from patients with chronic HCV infection is associated with fibrotic liver injury'}, {'document': ['Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D) is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deleterious mutations in the LIPA gene.  The age at onset and rate of progression vary greatly and this may relate to the nature of the underlying mutations.  Patients presenting in infancy have the most rapidly progressive disease, developing signs and symptoms in the first weeks of life and rarely surviving beyond 6 months of age.  Children and adults typically present with some combination of dyslipidaemia, hepatomegaly, elevated transaminases, and microvesicular hepatosteatosis on biopsy.  Liver damage with progression to fibrosis, cirrhosis and liver failure occurs in a large proportion of patients.  Elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and decreased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels are common features, and cardiovascular disease may manifest as early as childhood.  Given that these clinical manifestations are shared with other cardiovascular, liver and metabolic diseases, it is not surprising that LAL-D is under-recognized in clinical practice.  This article provides practical guidance to lipidologists, endocrinologists, cardiologists and hepatologists on how to recognize individuals with this life-limiting disease.  A diagnostic algorithm is proposed with a view to achieving definitive diagnosis using a recently developed blood test for lysosomal acid lipase.  Finally, current management options are reviewed in light of the ongoing development of enzyme replacement therapy with sebelipase alfa (Synageva BioPharma Corp., Lexington, MA, USA), a recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase enzyme.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['practical guidance', 'recognize individuals with this life-limiting disease', 'achieving definitive diagnosis', 'current management options'], 'process': ['Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency', 'LAL', '-', 'D', 'hepatomegaly', 'microvesicular hepatosteatosis', 'Liver damage', 'cirrhosis', 'liver failure', 'Elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels', 'decreased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol', 'cardiovascular disease', 'diagnostic algorithm', 'enzyme replacement therapy'], 'material': ['autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease', 'LIPA', 'Children and adults', 'dyslipidaemia', 'elevated transaminases', 'LAL', 'recently developed blood test', 'lysosomal acid lipase', 'sebelipase', 'alfa', 'Synageva BioPharma Corp.', 'recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase enzyme']}], 'authors': 'van Gennip, A. H.; Abeling, N. G. G. M.; Vreken, P.; van Kuilenburg, A. B. P.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Biological Chemistry ', 'title': 'Regulation of tryptophan biosynthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: mode of action of 5-methyl-tryptophan and 5-methyl-tryptophan-sensitive mutants'}, {'document': ['Ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and cell death.  Bax Inhibitor-1 (BI-1) is an evolutionarily conserved ER protein that suppresses cell death and that is abundantly expressed in both liver and kidney.  We explored the role of BI-1 in protection from ER stress and IR injury by using bi-1 knockout mice, employing models of transient hepatic or renal artery occlusion.  Compared to wild-type bi-1 mice, bi-1 knockout mice subjected to hepatic IR injury exhibited these characteristics: (i) increased histological injury; (ii) increased serum transaminases, indicative of more hepatocyte death; (iii) increased percentages of TUNEL-positive hepatocytes; (iv) greater elevations in caspase activity; and (v) more activation of ER stress proteins inositol-requiring enzyme 1 and activating transcription factor 6 and greater increases in expression of ER stress proteins C/EBP homologous protein and spliced XBP-1 protein.  Moreover, hepatic IR injury induced elevations in bi-1 mRNA in wild-type liver, suggesting a need for bi-1 gene induction to limit tissue injury.  Similar sensitization of kidney to ER stress and IR injury was observed in bi-1(-/-) mice.  We conclude that bi-1 provides endogenous protection of liver and kidney from ER stress and IR injury.  Analysis of components of the bi-1-dependent pathway for protection from IR injury may therefore reveal new strategies for organ preservation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['increased histological injury', 'limit tissue injury', 'organ preservation'], 'process': ['Ischemia-reperfusion', 'IR', 'endoplasmic reticulum (', 'ER) stress and cell death', 'suppresses cell death', 'ER stress', 'IR injury', 'hepatic IR injury', 'serum transaminases', 'hepatocyte death', 'increased percentages of', 'elevations in caspase activity', 'activation of ER stress proteins', 'hepatic IR injury', 'bi-1 gene induction', 'ER stress', 'IR injury', 'ER stress', 'IR injury', 'IR injury'], 'material': ['Bax Inhibitor-1', 'BI-1', 'ER protein', 'BI-1', 'bi-1 knockout mice', 'wild-type bi-1 mice', 'bi-1 knockout mice', 'TUNEL-positive hepatocytes', 'inositol-requiring enzyme', 'ER stress proteins', 'C/EBP homologous protein', 'XBP-1 protein', 'liver', 'bi-1']}], 'authors': 'Girish Sandhya; Gupta Manish; Wang Bei; Lu Dan; Krop Ian E; Vogel Charles L; Burris Iii Howard A; LoRusso Patricia M; Yi Joo-Hee; Saad Ola; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease ', 'title': 'Adaptive characteristics of urea-cycle enzymes in the rat'}, {'document': ['We have previously shown that in some patients with primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1), disease is associated with mistargeting of the normally peroxisomal enzyme alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) to mitochondria (Danpure, C.J., P.J.  Cooper, P.J.  Wise, and P.R.  Jennings.  J.  Cell Biol. 108:1345-1352).  We have synthesized, amplified, cloned, and sequenced AGT cDNA from a PH1 patient with mitochondrial AGT (mAGT).  This identified three point mutations that cause amino acid substitutions in the predicted AGT protein sequence.  Using PCR and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization, a range of PH1 patients and controls were screened for these mutations.  This revealed that all eight PH1 patients with mAGT carried at least one allele with the same three mutations.  Two were homozygous for this allele and six were heterozygous.  In at least three of the heterozygotes, it appeared that only the mutant allele was expressed.  All three mutations were absent from PH1 patients lacking mAGT.  One mutation encoding a Gly----Arg substitution at residue 170 was not found in any of the control individuals.  However, the other two mutations, encoding Pro----Leu and Ile----Met substitutions at residues 11 and 340, respectively, cosegregated in the normal population at an allelic frequency of 5-10%.  In an individual homozygous for this allele (substitutions at residues 11 and 340) only a small proportion of AGT appeared to be rerouted to mitochondria.  It is suggested that the substitution at residue 11 generates an amphiphilic alpha-helix with characteristics similar to recognized mitochondrial targeting sequences, the full functional expression of which is dependent upon coexpression of the substitution at residue 170, which may induce defective peroxisomal import.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['primary hyperoxaluria', 'mistargeting of the normally peroxisomal enzyme', 'alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'point mutations', 'amino acid substitutions', 'PCR', 'allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization', 'substitution', 'defective peroxisomal import'], 'material': ['AGT cDNA', 'PH1 patient', 'mitochondrial AGT', 'mAGT', 'AGT protein sequence', 'PH1 patients', 'PH1 patients', 'mAGT', 'mutant allele', 'PH1 patients', 'mAGT', 'AGT', 'mitochondria', 'amphiphilic alpha-helix', 'mitochondrial targeting sequences']}], 'authors': 'Woong Park Sae; Klotzsche Marcus; Wilson Daniel J; Boshoff Helena I; Eoh Hyungjin; Manjunatha Ujjini; Blumenthal Antje; Rhee Kyu; Barry Clifton E 3rd; Aldrich Courtney C; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cancer chemotherapy and pharmacology ', 'title': 'Inborn errors of pyrimidine degradation: clinical, biochemical and molecular aspects'}, {'document': ['γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA), a hypotensive compd., and alanine accumulated in tea leaves under anaerobic conditions.  Since the 15N in 15N-glutamic acid was well incorporated in GABA and alanine during anaerobic incubation, glutamic acid seemed to be a source of nitrogen for the increased GABA and alanine.  Glutamate-oxalacetate transaminase and glutamate-pyruvate transaminase (GTP) were the predominant amino acid transaminases in tea leaves.  Although glutamate decarboxylase and GPT seemed to be important for GABA and alanine accumulation, the activities of these enzymes did not increase under anaerobic conditions.  Glutamate decarboxylase, which formed GABA from glutamate, was purified 52.4-fold.  This enzyme, with an optimum pH at 5.8, was activated by pyridoxal phosphate and used only L-glutamic acid as a substrate.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['anaerobic incubation', 'Glutamate-oxalacetate transaminase', 'glutamate-pyruvate transaminase', 'GTP', 'amino acid transaminases', 'glutamate decarboxylase', 'GPT', 'anaerobic conditions', 'Glutamate decarboxylase'], 'material': ['γ-Aminobutyric', 'GABA', 'alanine', 'tea leaves', '15N in 15N-glutamic', 'GABA', 'alanine', 'glutamic', 'acid', 'GABA', 'alanine', 'tea leaves', 'GABA', 'alanine', 'GABA', 'glutamate', 'enzyme', 'pyridoxal phosphate', 'L-glutamic acid']}], 'authors': 'Baskin-Bey E S; Washburn K; Feng S; Oltersdorf T; Shapiro D; Huyghe Mira; Burgart L; Garrity-Park M; van Vilsteren F G I; Oliver L K; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'PLoS pathogens ', 'title': 'Clinical pharmacology of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1): an antibody-drug conjugate in development for the treatment of HER2-positive cancer'}, {'document': ['Activation of serine biosynthesis supports growth and proliferation of cancer cells.  Human cancers often exhibit overexpression of phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), the metabolic enzyme that catalyses the reaction that diverts serine biosynthesis from the glycolytic pathway.  By refueling serine biosynthetic pathways, cancer cells sustain their metabolic requirements, promoting macromolecule synthesis, anaplerotic flux and ATP.  Serine biosynthesis intersects glutaminolysis and together with this pathway provides substrates for production of antioxidant GSH.  In human lung adenocarcinomas we identified a correlation between serine biosynthetic pathway and p73 expression.  Metabolic profiling of human cancer cell line revealed that TAp73 activates serine biosynthesis, resulting in increased intracellular levels of serine and glycine, associated to accumulation of glutamate, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) anaplerotic intermediates and GSH.  However, at molecular level p73 does not directly regulate serine metabolic enzymes, but transcriptionally controls a key enzyme of glutaminolysis, glutaminase-2 (GLS-2). p73, through GLS-2, favors conversion of glutamine in glutamate, which in turn drives the serine biosynthetic pathway.  Serine and glutamate can be then employed for GSH synthesis, thus the p73-dependent metabolic switch enables potential response against oxidative stress.  In knockdown experiment, indeed, TAp73 depletion completely abrogates cancer cell proliferation capacity in serine/glycine-deprivation, supporting the role of p73 to help cancer cells under metabolic stress.  These findings implicate p73 in regulation of cancer metabolism and suggest that TAp73 influences glutamine and serine metabolism, affecting GSH synthesis and determining cancer pathogenesis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Human cancers', 'regulation of cancer metabolism', 'determining cancer pathogenesis'], 'process': ['Activation of serine biosynthesis', 'phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase', 'PHGDH', 'catalyses the reaction', 'diverts serine biosynthesis', 'glycolytic pathway', 'refueling serine biosynthetic pathways', 'macromolecule synthesis', 'anaplerotic flux', 'Serine biosynthesis', 'production of antioxidant', 'serine biosynthetic pathway', 'Metabolic profiling', 'activates serine biosynthesis', 'serine metabolic enzymes', 'serine biosynthetic pathway', 'GSH synthesis', 'oxidative stress', 'knockdown experiment', 'depletion completely', 'serine/glycine-deprivation', 'metabolic stress', 'glutamine and serine metabolism', 'GSH synthesis'], 'material': ['metabolic enzyme', 'cancer cells', 'ATP', 'glutaminolysis', 'GSH', 'human cancer cell', 'TAp73', 'serine', 'glycine', 'glutamate', 'tricarboxylic acid', 'TCA', 'anaplerotic intermediates', 'GSH', 'p73', 'glutaminase-2', 'GLS-2', 'p73', 'GLS-2', 'glutamine', 'glutamate', 'Serine', 'glutamate', 'p73-dependent metabolic switch', 'TAp73', 'p73', 'p73', 'TAp73']}], 'authors': 'Goldberger R F', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'American journal of transplantation : official journal of the American Society of Transplantation and the American Society of Transplant Surgeons ', 'title': 'Evaluating the sensitivity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to biotin deprivation using regulated gene expression'}, {'document': ['The tryptophan metabolite kynurenic acid (KYNA), which is produced enzymatically by the irreversible transamination of l-kynurenine, is an antagonist of alpha7 nicotinic and NMDA receptors and may thus modulate cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission.  Two kynurenine aminotransferases (KAT I and II) are currently considered the major biosynthetic enzymes of KYNA in the brain.  In this study, we report the existence of a third enzyme displaying KAT activity in the mammalian brain.  The novel KAT had a pH optimum of 8.0 and a low capacity to transaminate glutamine or alpha-aminoadipate (the classic substrates of KAT I and KAT II, respectively).  The enzyme was inhibited by aspartate, glutamate, and quisqualate but was insensitive to blockade by glutamine or anti-KAT II antibodies.  After purification to homogeneity, the protein was sequenced and the enzyme was identified as mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase (mitAAT).  Finally, the relative contributions of KAT I, KAT II, and mitAAT to total KAT activity were determined in mouse, rat, and human brain at physiological pH using anti-mitAAT antibodies.  KAT II was most abundant in rat and human brain, while mitAAT played the major role in mouse brain.  It remains to be seen if mitAAT participates in cerebral KYNA synthesis under physiological and/or pathological conditions in vivo.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['modulate cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission', 'relative contributions'], 'process': ['irreversible transamination', 'antagonist of alpha7 nicotinic and NMDA receptors', 'biosynthetic enzymes', 'KAT activity', 'purification', 'total KAT activity', 'cerebral KYNA synthesis'], 'material': ['tryptophan metabolite', 'kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'l-kynurenine', 'kynurenine aminotransferases', 'KAT', 'KYNA', 'KAT', 'glutamine', 'alpha-aminoadipate', 'KAT', 'KAT', 'aspartate', 'glutamate', 'quisqualate', 'glutamine', 'anti-KAT II antibodies', 'mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase', 'mitAAT', 'KAT', 'I', 'KAT', 'II', 'mitAAT', 'mouse', 'anti-mitAAT antibodies', 'KAT', 'II', 'rat and human brain', 'mitAAT', 'mitAAT']}], 'authors': 'Vie Nadia; Copois Virginie; Bascoul-Mollevi Caroline; Denis Vincent; Bec Nicole; Robert Bruno; Fraslon Caroline; Conseiller Emmanuel; Molina Franck; Larroque Christian; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Science ', 'title': 'Clinical Trial of the Pan-Caspase Inhibitor, IDN-6556, in Human Liver Preservation Injury'}, {'document': ["We report studies of a Croatian boy, a proven case of human S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) hydrolase deficiency.  Psychomotor development was slow until his fifth month; thereafter, virtually absent until treatment was started.  He had marked hypotonia with elevated serum creatine kinase and transaminases, prolonged prothrombin time and low albumin.  Electron microscopy of muscle showed numerous abnormal myelin figures; liver biopsy showed mild hepatitis with sparse rough endoplasmic reticulum.  Brain MRI at 12.7 months revealed white matter atrophy and abnormally slow myelination.  Hypermethioninemia was present in the initial metabolic study at age 8 months, and persisted (up to 784 microM) without tyrosine elevation.  Plasma total homocysteine was very slightly elevated for an infant to 14.5-15.9 microM.  In plasma, S-adenosylmethionine was 30-fold and AdoHcy 150-fold elevated.  Activity of AdoHcy hydrolase was approximately equal to 3% of control in liver and was 5-10% of the control values in red blood cells and cultured fibroblasts.  We found no evidence of a soluble inhibitor of the enzyme in extracts of the patient's cultured fibroblasts.  Additional pretreatment abnormalities in plasma included low concentrations of phosphatidylcholine and choline, with elevations of guanidinoacetate, betaine, dimethylglycine, and cystathionine.  Leukocyte DNA was hypermethylated.  Gene analysis revealed two mutations in exon 4: a maternally derived stop codon, and a paternally derived missense mutation.  We discuss reasons for biochemical abnormalities and pathophysiological aspects of AdoHcy hydrolase deficiency."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['a proven case of', 'discuss reasons for biochemical abnormalities', 'pathophysiological aspects of AdoHcy hydrolase deficiency'], 'process': ['human S-adenosylhomocysteine', 'AdoHcy', 'hydrolase deficiency', 'marked hypotonia', 'liver biopsy', 'mild hepatitis', 'Brain MRI', 'Hypermethioninemia', 'metabolic study', 'tyrosine elevation', 'low concentrations', 'Gene analysis', 'maternally derived stop codon'], 'material': ['low albumin', 'Electron microscopy', 'abnormal myelin figures', 'sparse rough endoplasmic reticulum', 'white matter atrophy', 'Plasma total homocysteine', 'plasma', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'AdoHcy', 'AdoHcy hydrolase', 'liver', 'red blood cells', 'cultured fibroblasts', 'soluble inhibitor', "patient's cultured fibroblasts", 'plasma', 'phosphatidylcholine', 'choline', 'guanidinoacetate', 'betaine', 'dimethylglycine', 'cystathionine', 'Leukocyte DNA', 'paternally derived missense mutation']}], 'authors': 'Wit Ferdinand W N M; Weverling Gerrit Jan; Weel Jan; Jurriaans Suzanne; Lange Joep M A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular cancer ', 'title': 'Autogenous regulation of gene expression'}, {'document': ['Two new mutations are described which, together, eliminate essentially all the aminotransferase activity required for de novo biosynthesis of tyrosine, phenylalanine, and aspartic acid in a K-12 strain of Escherichia coli.  One mutation, designated tyrB, lies at about 80 min on the E. coli map and inactivates the "tyrosine-repressible" tyrosine/phenylalanine aminotransferase.  The second mutation, aspC, maps at about 20 min and inactivates a nonrespressible aspartate aminotransferase that also has activity on the aromatic amino acids.  In ilvE- strains, which lack the branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase, the presence of either the tyrosine-repressible aminotransferase or the aspartate aminotransferase is sufficient for growth in the absence of exogenous tyrosine, phenylalanine, or aspartate; the tyrosine-repressible enzyme is also active in leucine biosynthesis.  The ilvE gene product alone can reverse a phenylalanine requirement.  Biochemical studies on extracts of strains carrying combinations of these aminotransferase mutations confirm the existence of two distinct enzymes with overlapping specificities for the alpha-keto acid analogues of tyrosine, phenylalanine, and aspartate.  These enzymes can be distinguished by electrophoretic mobilities, by kinetic parameters using various substrates, and by a difference in tyrosine repressibility.  In extracts of an ilvE- tyrB- aspC- triple mutant, no aminotransferase activity for the alpha-keto acids of tyrosine, phenylalanine, or aspartate could be detected.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['de novo biosynthesis'], 'process': ['eliminate essentially all the aminotransferase activity', 'tyrB', 'aspC', 'leucine biosynthesis', 'reverse a phenylalanine requirement', 'Biochemical studies', 'aminotransferase mutations', 'kinetic parameters', 'tyrosine repressibility', 'aminotransferase activity'], 'material': ['tyrosine', 'phenylalanine', 'K-12 strain', 'E. coli map', '"tyrosine-repressible" tyrosine/phenylalanine aminotransferase', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'aromatic amino', 'ilvE- strains', 'branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase', 'tyrosine-repressible aminotransferase', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'tyrosine', 'phenylalanine', 'aspartate', 'tyrosine-repressible enzyme', 'ilvE gene product', 'enzymes', 'alpha-keto acid analogues', 'tyrosine', 'phenylalanine', 'aspartate', 'substrates', 'ilvE- tyrB- aspC- triple mutant', 'alpha-keto acids', 'tyrosine', 'phenylalanine', 'aspartate']}], 'authors': 'Duitman E H; Hamoen L W; Rembold M; Venema G; Seitz H; Saenger W; Bernhard F; Reinhardt R; Schmidt M; Ullrich C; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of infectious diseases ', 'title': 'Overexpression of phosphoserine aminotransferase PSAT1 stimulates cell growth and increases chemoresistance of colon cancer cells'}, {'document': ['The most prominent role of peroxisomes in photosynthetic plant tissues is their participation in photorespiration, a process also known as the oxidative C2 cycle or the oxidative photosynthetic carbon cycle.  Photorespiration is an essential process in land plants, as evident from the conditionally lethal phenotype of mutants deficient in enzymes or transport proteins involved in this pathway.  The oxidative C2 cycle is a salvage pathway for phosphoglycolate, the product of the oxygenase activity of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO), to the Calvin cycle intermediate phosphoglycerate.  The pathway is highly compartmentalized and involves reactions in chloroplasts, peroxisomes, and mitochondria.  The H2O2-producing enzyme glycolate oxidase, catalase, and several aminotransferases of the photorespiratory cycle are located in peroxisomes, with catalase representing the major constituent of the peroxisomal matrix in photosynthetic tissues.  Although photorespiration is of major importance for photosynthesis, the identification of the enzymes involved in this process has only recently been completed.  Only little is known about the metabolite transporters for the exchange of photorespiratory intermediates between peroxisomes and the other organelles involved, and about the regulation of the photorespiratory pathway.  This review highlights recent developments in understanding photorespiration and identifies remaining gaps in our knowledge of this important metabolic pathway.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['photosynthesis', 'regulation of the photorespiratory pathway', 'metabolic pathway'], 'process': ['photorespiration', 'oxidative C2 cycle', 'oxidative photosynthetic carbon cycle', 'Photorespiration', 'oxidative C2 cycle', 'salvage pathway', 'oxygenase activity', 'reactions', 'photorespiration', 'identification of the enzymes'], 'material': ['peroxisomes', 'photosynthetic plant tissues', 'land plants', 'enzymes', 'transport proteins', 'phosphoglycolate', 'ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase', 'RubisCO', 'Calvin cycle intermediate phosphoglycerate', 'chloroplasts', 'peroxisomes', 'mitochondria', 'H2O2-producing enzyme', 'glycolate oxidase', 'catalase', 'aminotransferases', 'peroxisomes', 'catalase', 'peroxisomal matrix', 'photosynthetic tissues', 'metabolite transporters', 'exchange of photorespiratory intermediates', 'peroxisomes']}], 'authors': 'Qian, Cheng; Idoate, Miguel; Bilbao, Roberto; Sangro, Bruno; Bruna, Oscar; Vazquez, Jesus; Prieto, Jesus', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Incidence of and risk factors for severe hepatotoxicity associated with antiretroviral combination therapy'}, {'document': ['ω-Transaminases, employed as a lyophilized crude cell-free ext., were successfully employed in org. solvent for the asym. amination of ketones without the need for immobilization.  Best activity was found for Me tert-Bu ether (MTBE) at a water activity of 0.6.  The ω-transaminases (9 different enzymes) accepted efficiently 2-propylamine as amine donor when used in the solvent, which is not the case when they are used in aq. soln.  The bio-amination in org. solvent showed several advantages such as higher reaction rates (up to 7-fold), general acceptance of 2-propylamine as amine donor, simple work-up procedure (i.e., no basification and extn. required), easy recycling of the catalyst and lack of substrate inhibition.  The biocatalysts maintained their excellent stereoselectivity in MTBE allowing the prepn. of optically pure amines (ee >99%) with up to >99% conversion.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['asym. amination of ketones'], 'process': ['immobilization', 'bio-amination', 'reaction', 'simple work-up procedure', 'basification', 'extn. required', 'substrate inhibition', 'prepn', 'conversion'], 'material': ['ω-Transaminases', 'lyophilized crude cell-free ext', 'org. solvent', 'Me tert', '-Bu', 'ether', 'MTBE', 'ω-transaminases', '2-propylamine', 'amine donor', 'solvent', 'aq.', 'soln', 'org. solvent', '2-propylamine', 'amine donor', 'catalyst', 'biocatalysts', 'MTBE', 'optically pure amines']}], 'authors': 'Reiner Zeljko; Guardamagna Ornella; Nair Devaki; Soran Handrean; Hovingh Kees; Bertolini Stefano; Jones Simon; Coric Marijana; Calandra Sebastiano; Hamilton John; et al', 'DOI': '10.1089/hum.1997.8.3-349', 'journal': 'Human Gene Therapy ', 'title': 'The mycosubtilin synthetase of Bacillus subtilis ATCC6633: a multifunctional hybrid between a peptide synthetase, an amino transferase, and a fatty acid synthase'}, {'document': ['Various microorganisms, belonging to the genera Lactococcus, Lactobacillus, Streptococcus, Leuconostoc, Bifidobacterium, Propionibacterium, Brevibacterium, Corynebacterium and Arthrobacter, used in dairy fermns. such as cheese making, were analyzed for their potential to convert leucine into flavor components, most notably 3-methylbutanal.  A large variation between and within species was obsd. for various enzyme activities involved in the conversion pathway, e.g. transaminases, α-hydroxy acid dehydrogenase and α-keto acid decarboxylase.  In particular, α-keto acid decarboxylase activity-leading to 3-methylbutanal-was found to be present in only two of the strains tested.  It is proposed that this activity is rate-controlling in the conversion pathway leading to the flavor compd. 3-methylbutanal.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['conversion pathway'], 'process': ['cheese making', 'convert leucine', 'enzyme activities', 'conversion pathway', 'transaminases', 'rate-controlling'], 'material': ['microorganisms', 'Lactococcus', 'Lactobacillus', 'Streptococcus', 'Leuconostoc', 'Bifidobacterium', 'Propionibacterium', 'Brevibacterium', 'Corynebacterium', 'Arthrobacter', 'dairy fermns', '3-methylbutanal', 'α-hydroxy acid dehydrogenase', 'α-keto acid decarboxylase', 'α-keto acid decarboxylase activity', '3-methylbutanal', 'flavor compd', '3-methylbutanal']}], 'authors': 'Bailly-Maitre Beatrice; Fondevila Constantino; Kaldas Fady; Droin Nathalie; Luciano Frederic; Ricci Jean-Ehrland; Croxton Rhonda; Krajewska Maryla; Zapata Juan M; Kupiec-Weglinski Jerzy W; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Atherosclerosis ', 'title': 'Gene transfer and therapy with adenoviral vector in rats with diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocellular carcinoma'}, {'document': ["CYP2E1 is recognized as the most important enzyme for initiation of acetaminophen (APAP)-induced toxicity.  In this study, the resistance of Cyp2e1-null mice to APAP treatment was confirmed by comparing serum aminotransferase activities and blood urea nitrogen levels in wild-type and Cyp2e1-null mice.  However, unexpectedly, profiling of major known APAP metabolites in urine and serum revealed that the contribution of CYP2E1 to APAP metabolism decreased with increasing APAP doses administered.  Measurement of hepatic glutathione and hydrogen peroxide levels exposed the importance of oxidative stress in determining the consequence of APAP overdose.  Subsequent metabolomic analysis was capable of constructing a principal components analysis (PCA) model that delineated a relationship between urinary metabolomes and the responses to APAP treatment.  Urinary ions high in wild-type mice treated with 400 mg/kg APAP were elucidated as 3-methoxy-APAP glucuronide (VII) and three novel APAP metabolites, including S-(5-acetylamino-2-hydroxyphenyl)mercaptopyruvic acid (VI, formed by a Cys-APAP transamination reaction in kidney), 3,3'-biacetaminophen (VIII, an APAP dimer), and a benzothiazine compound (IX, originated from deacetylated APAP), through mass isotopomer analysis, accurate mass measurement, tandem mass spectrometry fragmentation, in vitro reactions, and chemical treatments.  Dose-, time-, and genotype-dependent appearance of these minor APAP metabolites implied their association with the APAP-induced toxicity and potential biomarker application.  Overall, the oxidative stress elicited by CYP2E1-mediated APAP metabolism might significantly contribute to APAP-induced toxicity.  The combination of genetically modified animal models, mass isotopomer analysis, and metabolomics provides a powerful and efficient technical platform to characterize APAP-induced toxicity through identifying novel biomarkers and unraveling novel mechanisms."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['initiation of acetaminophen', 'resistance of Cyp2e1-null mice', 'potential biomarker application', 'characterize APAP-induced toxicity', 'unraveling novel mechanisms'], 'process': ['APAP treatment', 'profiling of major known APAP metabolites', 'APAP metabolism', 'oxidative stress', 'metabolomic analysis', 'principal components analysis', 'PCA', 'APAP treatment', 'Cys-APAP transamination reaction', 'mass isotopomer analysis', 'accurate mass measurement', 'tandem mass spectrometry fragmentation', 'in vitro reactions', 'chemical treatments', 'APAP-induced toxicity', 'oxidative stress', 'CYP2E1-mediated APAP metabolism', 'induced toxicity', 'mass isotopomer analysis', 'metabolomics'], 'material': ['CYP2E1', 'serum aminotransferase activities', 'blood urea nitrogen', 'urine', 'CYP2E1', 'APAP', 'hepatic glutathione', 'hydrogen peroxide', 'APAP', 'urinary metabolomes', 'Urinary ions', 'APAP', '3-methoxy-APAP glucuronide', 'APAP metabolites', 'S-(5-acetylamino-2-hydroxyphenyl)mercaptopyruvic acid', 'VI', 'kidney', "3,3'-biacetaminophen (", 'VIII', 'APAP dimer', 'benzothiazine compound', 'IX', 'deacetylated APAP', 'these minor APAP metabolites', 'APAP', 'genetically modified animal models', 'identifying novel biomarkers']}], 'authors': 'Purdue P E; Takada Y; Danpure C J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency--an under-recognized cause of dyslipidaemia and liver dysfunction'}, {'document': ["In aging tissues the oxidative stress increases due to decreased activity of antioxidant enzymes and proteolysis increases due to decreased activity of aminotransferases, which can be modified by hormonal replacement therapy (HRT).  The aim of the present study was to det. the effect of HRT on the activities of an antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD) and aminotransferases like alanine aminotransferase (Ala-AT) and aspartate aminotransferase in different age groups (12, 18 and 24 mo) of naturally menopausal rats.  The rats were given the s.c. injection of 17β-estradiol, progesterone and combination of estradiol and progesterone for 1 mo.  The activity of SOD, Ala-AT and Asp-AT was measured in the brain (cerebral hemisphere, CH), heart, liver, kidney and uterus.  The activity of SOD decreased with age in all the tissues taken particularly in liver.  After HRT the enzyme activities were increased as compared to age-matched controls in all the tissues of aging rats.  The activities of transaminases (Ala-AT and Asp-AT) showed a decrease with age in all the tissues and administration of estradiol and combination of estradiol and progesterone further decreased both the aminotransferases.  The authors' study elucidates that increased activity of SOD contributes in protection of cells from oxygen toxicity by catalyzing the dismutation of free radicals in tissues.  Furthermore, the HRT probably decreases gluconeogenesis and proteolysis by decreasing the activities of Ala-AT and Asp-AT in aging rat tissues."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['det. the effect of HRT'], 'process': ['oxidative stress', 'hormonal replacement therapy', 'HRT', 'superoxide dismutase', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'administration of', 'increased activity', 'dismutation of free radicals', 'HRT', 'decreases gluconeogenesis and proteolysis'], 'material': ['aminotransferases', 'SOD', 'Ala', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'naturally menopausal rats', '17β-estradiol', 'progesterone', 'estradiol', 'progesterone', 'SOD', 'Ala-AT', 'Asp', '-', 'cerebral hemisphere', 'CH', 'heart', 'liver', 'uterus', 'SOD', 'liver', 'age-matched controls', 'aging rats', 'activities of transaminases', 'Ala-AT', 'Asp', '-', 'AT', 'estradiol', 'estradiol', 'progesterone', 'SOD', 'oxygen', 'Ala-AT', 'Asp', '-', 'AT', 'aging rat tissues']}], 'authors': 'Tsushida, Tojiro; Murai, Toshinobu', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of cell biology ', 'title': 'Cytoprotective gene bi-1 is required for intrinsic protection from endoplasmic reticulum stress and ischemia-reperfusion injury'}, {'document': ['Biocatalysis has emerged as a powerful alternative to traditional chem., esp. for asym. synthesis.  One key requirement during process development is the discovery of a biocatalyst with an appropriate enantiopreference and enantioselectivity, which can be achieved, for instance, by protein engineering or screening of metagenome libraries.  We have developed an in silico strategy for a sequence-based prediction of substrate specificity and enantiopreference.  First, we used rational protein design to predict key amino acid substitutions that indicate the desired activity.  Then, we searched protein databases for proteins already carrying these mutations instead of constructing the corresponding mutants in the lab.  This methodol. exploits the fact that naturally evolved proteins have undergone selection over millions of years, which has resulted in highly optimized catalysts.  Using this in silico approach, we have discovered 17 (R)-selective amine transaminases, which catalyzed the synthesis of several (R)-amines with excellent optical purity up to >99% enantiomeric excess.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['sequence-based prediction of substrate specificity and enantiopreference', 'predict key amino acid substitutions'], 'process': ['asym. synthesis', 'enantiopreference', 'protein engineering', 'screening of metagenome libraries', 'in silico strategy', 'rational protein design', 'selection', 'in silico approach'], 'material': ['Biocatalysis', 'biocatalyst', 'highly optimized catalysts', '17 (R)-selective amine transaminases', 'several (R)-amines with excellent optical purity']}], 'authors': 'Amelio I; Sayan B S; Tucci P; Agostini M; Markert E K; Levine A J; Rufini A; Antonov A V; Mineo T C; Melino G', 'DOI': '10.1080/00021369.1987.10868498', 'journal': 'Agricultural and Biological Chemistry ', 'title': 'Identification of mutations associated with peroxisome-to-mitochondrion mistargeting of alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase in primary hyperoxaluria type 1'}, {'document': ["Enzymes are nature's tool to speed up biochem. reactions that would otherwise hardly proceed.  Here we investigated amine transaminases as one example of enzymes whose application in biocatalysis is based on promiscuous activity.  Identification of novel biocatalysts by sequence homol. searches might be difficult if the desired activity is not the natural function of the protein and if the structural determinants causing the promiscuous activity are not well understood.  By exploring the structural determinants responsible for (the different degrees) of ATA activity, we obtained valuable information that can be used in the identification and discrimination of transaminases or in structure-based protein engineering."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['speed up biochem. reactions', 'identification and discrimination of transaminases'], 'process': ['biocatalysis', 'Identification of novel biocatalysts', 'sequence homol. searches', 'ATA activity', 'structure-based protein engineering'], 'material': ['Enzymes', 'amine transaminases', 'protein', 'structural determinants']}], 'authors': 'Guidetti Paolo; Amori Laura; Sapko Michael T; Okuno Etsuo; Schwarcz Robert', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Oncogene ', 'title': 'Conversion of glutamic acid to γ-aminobutyric acid in tea leaves under anaerobic conditions'}, {'document': ['Two recently identified (S)-selective ω-transaminases (ω-TAs) that originate from Paracoccus denitrificans (Strep-PD-ωTA, cloned with an N-terminal Strep-tag II) and Pseudomonas fluorescens (PF-ωTA) were employed for the asym. amination of selected prochiral ketones.  The substrates tested were transformed into optically pure amines (>99 % ee) with high conversion (up to >99 %).  The ω-TAs led to higher conversion in the absence of DMSO as a cosolvent than in its presence (15 %, vol./vol.).  Addnl., it was shown that a His-tagged recombinant transaminase from Vibrio fluvialis (His-VF-ωTA, cloned with an N-terminal His6-tag) showed for a single substrate, Et acetoacetate, significantly higher stereoselectivity for the amination compared to the corresponding com. enzyme prepn. (>99 vs. 50 %).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['asym. amination', 'amination'], 'process': ['conversion', 'conversion'], 'material': ['ω-TAs', 'Paracoccus denitrificans', 'Strep-PD-ωTA', 'N-terminal Strep-tag II', 'Pseudomonas fluorescens', 'PF-ωTA', 'prochiral ketones', 'optically pure amines', 'ω-TAs', 'DMSO', 'His-tagged recombinant transaminase', 'His-VF-ωTA', 'N-terminal His6-tag', 'Et acetoacetate', 'com. enzyme prepn']}], 'authors': 'Baric Ivo; Fumic Ksenija; Glenn Byron; Cuk Mario; Schulze Andreas; Finkelstein James D; James S Jill; Mejaski-Bosnjak Vlatka; Pazanin Leo; Pogribny Igor P; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of neurochemistry ', 'title': 'p73 regulates serine biosynthesis in cancer'}, {'document': ["The pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (vitamin B(6))-dependent enzymes that act on amino acid substrates have multiple evolutionary origins.  Thus, the common mechanistic features of B(6) enzymes are not accidental historical traits but reflect evolutionary or chemical necessities.  The B(6) enzymes belong to four independent evolutionary lineages of paralogous proteins, of which the alpha family (with aspartate aminotransferase as the prototype enzyme) is by far the largest and most diverse.  The considerably smaller beta family (tryptophan synthase beta as the prototype enzyme) is structurally and functionally more homogenous.  Both the D-alanine aminotransferase family and the alanine racemase family consist of only a few enzymes.  The primordial pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent protein catalysts apparently first diverged into reaction-specific protoenzymes, which then diverged further by specializing for substrate specificity.  Aminotransferases as well as amino acid decarboxylases are found in two different evolutionary lineages, providing examples of convergent enzyme evolution.  The functional specialization of most B(6) enzymes seems to have already occurred in the universal ancestor cell before the divergence of eukaryotes, archebacteria, and eubacteria 1500 million years ago.  Pyridoxal-5'-phosphate must have emerged very early in biological evolution; conceivably, metal ions and organic cofactors were the first biological catalysts.  To simulate particular steps of molecular evolution, both the substrate and reaction specificity of existent B(6) enzymes were changed by substitution of active-site residues, and monoclonal pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent catalytic antibodies were produced with selection criteria that might have been operative in the evolution of protein-assisted pyridoxal catalysis."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['aspartate aminotransferase', 'tryptophan synthase', 'convergent enzyme evolution', 'functional specialization', 'biological evolution', 'molecular evolution', 'protein-assisted pyridoxal catalysis'], 'material': ["pyridoxal-5'-phosphate", 'vitamin B(6))-dependent', 'amino acid substrates', 'B(6) enzymes', 'B(6) enzymes', 'paralogous proteins', 'alpha family', 'beta family', 'D-alanine aminotransferase', 'alanine racemase', 'enzymes', "pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent protein catalysts", 'reaction-specific protoenzymes', 'Aminotransferases', 'amino acid decarboxylases', 'evolutionary lineages', 'B(6) enzymes', 'eukaryotes', 'archebacteria', 'eubacteria', "Pyridoxal-5'-phosphate must", 'metal ions', 'organic cofactors', 'biological catalysts', 'B(6) enzymes', "monoclonal pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent catalytic antibodies"]}], 'authors': 'Gelfand D H; Steinberg R A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase: a third kynurenate-producing enzyme in the mammalian brain'}, {'document': ["Excitatory amino acid (EAA)-mediated synaptic transmission is the most prevalent excitatory system within the mammalian brain.  Activation of EAA receptors has been postulated to contribute to neuronal cell death in stroke, epilepsy, hypoglycemia, and Huntington's disease.  Kynurenic acid is an endogenous substance that inhibits EAA receptors and may therefore influence important physiologic and pathologic processes.  The release of intracerebrally synthesized kynurenic acid into the extracellular fluid (ECF), where it may act at EAA receptors, has not been established in vivo.  We studied the synthesis and release of kynurenic acid in the rat striatum using intracerebral microdialysis coupled with high performance liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection.  The basal ECF concentration of kynurenic acid in the rat corpus striatum was 17.1 +/- 1.1 nM.  Peripheral administration of the immediate biosynthetic precursor of kynurenic acid, L-kynurenine, resulted in marked dose-dependent increases in striatal ECF concentrations of kynurenic acid, peaking at 2-2.5 hr.  The highest dose of L-kynurenine (100 mg/kg), administered peripherally, resulted in a 108-fold increase in plasma kynurenic acid levels and a 37-fold increase in cerebral ECF levels.  Peripheral administration of kynurenic acid, at a dose that caused plasma levels to increase 430-fold, resulted in only 4-fold increases in striatal ECF concentrations.  The precursor responsiveness of striatal ECF kynurenic acid to peripherally infused L-kynurenine was blocked by the central application (via the dialysis probe) of aminooxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of the immediate synthetic enzyme for kynurenic acid, kynurenine aminotransferase.  Administration of L-tryptophan was less effective than L-kynurenine in increasing ECF kynurenic acid concentrations and did so at a considerably later time interval (6 hr).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Excitatory amino acid', 'precursor responsiveness'], 'process': ['excitatory system', 'Activation of EAA receptors', 'stroke', 'epilepsy', 'hypoglycemia', 'inhibits EAA receptors', 'release of intracerebrally synthesized kynurenic acid', 'high performance liquid chromatography', 'fluorescence detection', 'Peripheral administration', 'Peripheral administration', 'central application', 'increasing ECF kynurenic acid concentrations'], 'material': ['Kynurenic', 'endogenous substance', 'extracellular fluid', 'ECF', 'EAA receptors', 'intracerebral microdialysis', 'kynurenic', 'immediate biosynthetic precursor of kynurenic acid', 'L-kynurenine', 'striatal ECF', 'L-kynurenine', 'plasma kynurenic', 'cerebral ECF', 'kynurenic', '4-fold increases', 'striatal ECF', 'striatal ECF kynurenic', 'peripherally infused L-kynurenine', 'dialysis probe', 'aminooxyacetic', 'inhibitor of the immediate synthetic enzyme', 'kynurenine aminotransferase', 'L-tryptophan', 'L-kynurenine']}], 'authors': 'Reumann Sigrun; Weber Andreas P M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase deficiency in a human: a genetic disorder of methionine metabolism'}, {'document': ['The activity of phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase, an enzyme that synthesizes adrenaline from noradrenaline in the adrenal medulla, is markedly depressed following hypophysectomy.  Enzyme activity is restored to normal after administration of ACTH or the potent glucocorticoid, dexamethasone.  Thus the biosynthesis of adrenaline in the adrenal medulla appears to be regulated by the pituitary-adrenocortical system.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biosynthesis of adrenaline'], 'process': ['phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase', 'synthesizes adrenaline from noradrenaline in the adrenal medulla', 'hypophysectomy'], 'material': ['ACTH', 'potent glucocorticoid', 'dexamethasone', 'pituitary-adrenocortical system']}], 'authors': 'Mutti, Francesco G.; Kroutil, Wolfgang', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Biochimica et biophysica acta ', 'title': 'Escherichia coli mutants deficient in the aspartate and aromatic amino acid aminotransferases'}, {'document': ['Twenty-eight rats were examd. in a 5-wk expt. to investigate the effect of curcumin on gene expression and activities of hepatic antioxidant enzymes in rats intoxicated with aflatoxin B1 (AFB1).  The rats were divided into four groups.  Rats in 1-4 groups served as control, oral curcumin treated (15 mg/kg body wt.), single i.p. dose of AFB1 (3 mg/kg body wt.) and combination of single i.p. dose of AFB1 with oral curcumin treated, resp.  AFB1 Liver damage and oxidative stress were evident in untreated AFB1-intoxicated rats as indicated by a significant elevation in hepatic transaminases, elevation in lipid peroxide biomarkers (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances; TBARS), redn. of reduced glutathione (GSH) concn., redn. in the activities of antioxidant enzymes namely catalase (CAT), total superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and down-regulation of gene expression of these antioxidant enzymes compared to control.  Liver sections of rats intoxicated with AFB1 showed a disrupted lobular architecture, scattered necrotic cells and biliary proliferation.  Administration of curcumin with AFB1 resulted in amelioration of AFB1-induced effects compared to untreated AFB1-intoxicated rats via an up-regulation of antioxidant enzyme gene expression, activation of the expressed genes and increase in the availability of GSH.  Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['gene expression and activities of hepatic antioxidant enzymes'], 'process': ['Liver damage', 'oxidative stress', 'elevation in hepatic transaminases', 'elevation in lipid peroxide biomarkers', 'catalase', 'CAT', 'total superoxide dismutase', 'SOD', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'GPX', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'GST', 'down-regulation of gene expression', 'biliary proliferation', 'Administration of', 'amelioration of AFB1', 'up-regulation of antioxidant enzyme gene expression', 'activation of the expressed genes', 'increase in the availability of GSH'], 'material': ['curcumin', 'aflatoxin B1', 'AFB1', 'Rats in', 'oral curcumin', 'single i.p. dose', 'AFB1', 'AFB1', 'oral curcumin', 'AFB1', 'untreated AFB1', 'thiobarbituric acid reactive substances', 'TBARS', 'reduced glutathione', 'GSH', 'antioxidant enzymes', 'Liver sections', 'AFB1', 'disrupted lobular architecture', 'necrotic cells', 'curcumin']}], 'authors': 'Smit, B. A.; Engels, W. J. M.; Wouters, J. T. M.; Smit, G.', 'DOI': '10.1002/adsc.201200900', 'journal': 'Advanced Synthesis & Catalysis ', 'title': 'Plant peroxisomes respire in the light: some gaps of the photorespiratory C2 cycle have become filled--others remain'}, {'document': ['We tested the hypothesis that fluctuations in the levels of kynurenic acid (KYNA), an endogenous antagonist of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor, modulate extracellular ACh levels in the medial prefrontal cortex in rats.  Decreases in cortical KYNA levels were achieved by local perfusion of S-ESBA, a selective inhibitor of the astrocytic enzyme kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), which catalyses the formation of KYNA from its precursor L-kynurenine.  At 5 mm, S-ESBA caused a 30% reduction in extracellular KYNA levels, which was accompanied by a two-threefold increase in basal cortical ACh levels.  Co-perfusion of KYNA in the endogenous range (100 nm), which by itself tended to reduce basal ACh levels, blocked the ability of S-ESBA to raise extracellular ACh levels.  KYNA perfusion (100 nm) also prevented the evoked ACh release caused by d-amphetamine (2.0 mg/kg).  This effect was duplicated by the systemic administration of kynurenine (50 mg/kg), which resulted in a significant increase in cortical KYNA formation.  Jointly, these data indicate that astrocytes, by producing and releasing KYNA, have the ability to modulate cortical cholinergic neurotransmission under both basal and stimulated conditions.  As cortical KYNA levels are elevated in individuals with schizophrenia, and in light of the established role of cortical ACh in executive functions, our findings suggest that drugs capable of attenuating the production of KYNA may be of benefit in the treatment of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['hypothesis that', 'raise extracellular ACh levels', 'drugs capable of attenuating the production of KYNA', 'treatment of cognitive deficits'], 'process': ['fluctuations in the levels of kynurenic', 'Decreases in cortical KYNA', 'local perfusion', 'kynurenine aminotransferase II', 'catalyses the formation of KYNA', 'Co-perfusion', 'KYNA perfusion', 'evoked ACh release', 'systemic administration', 'cortical KYNA formation', 'modulate cortical cholinergic neurotransmission'], 'material': ['KYNA', 'endogenous antagonist', 'alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh)', 'extracellular ACh', 'medial prefrontal cortex', 'S-ESBA', 'selective inhibitor of the astrocytic enzyme', 'KAT', 'II', 'L-kynurenine', 'S-ESBA', 'two-threefold increase', 'basal cortical ACh', 'KYNA', 'S-ESBA', 'd-amphetamine', 'kynurenine', 'astrocytes', 'cortical KYNA', 'cortical ACh']}], 'authors': 'Chen Chi; Krausz Kristopher W; Idle Jeffrey R; Gonzalez Frank J', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00253-003-1447-8', 'journal': 'Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology ', 'title': 'Asymmetric Bio-amination of Ketones in Organic Solvents'}, {'document': ["The vitamin B(6)-derived pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) is the cofactor of enzymes catalyzing a large variety of chemical reactions mainly involved in amino acid metabolism.  These enzymes have been divided in five families and fold types on the basis of evolutionary relationships and protein structural organization.  Almost 1.5% of all genes in prokaryotes code for PLP-dependent enzymes, whereas the percentage is substantially lower in eukaryotes.  Although about 4% of enzyme-catalyzed reactions catalogued by the Enzyme Commission are PLP-dependent, only a few enzymes are targets of approved drugs and about twenty are recognised as potential targets for drugs or herbicides.  PLP-dependent enzymes for which there are already commercially available drugs are DOPA decarboxylase (involved in the Parkinson disease), GABA aminotransferase (epilepsy), serine hydroxymethyltransferase (tumors and malaria), ornithine decarboxylase (African sleeping sickness and, potentially, tumors), alanine racemase (antibacterial agents), and human cytosolic branched-chain aminotransferase (pathological states associated to the GABA/glutamate equilibrium concentrations).  Within each family or metabolic pathway, the enzymes for which drugs have been already approved for clinical use are discussed first, reporting the enzyme structure, the catalytic mechanism, the mechanism of enzyme inactivation or modulation by substrate-like or transition state-like drugs, and on-going research for increasing specificity and decreasing side-effects.  Then, PLP-dependent enzymes that have been recently characterized and proposed as drug targets are reported.  Finally, the relevance of recent genomic analysis of PLP-dependent enzymes for the selection of drug targets is discussed."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['cofactor of enzymes', 'protein structural organization', 'metabolic pathway', 'enzyme structure', 'catalytic mechanism', 'mechanism of enzyme inactivation', 'increasing specificity and decreasing side-effects', 'selection of drug targets'], 'process': ['chemical reactions', 'amino acid metabolism', 'enzyme-catalyzed reactions', 'Parkinson disease', 'GABA aminotransferase', 'epilepsy', 'serine hydroxymethyltransferase', 'GABA/glutamate equilibrium concentrations', 'modulation', 'recent genomic analysis'], 'material': ['vitamin B(6)-derived pyridoxal', 'PLP', 'enzymes', 'PLP-dependent enzymes', 'eukaryotes', 'PLP', 'enzymes', 'drugs', 'herbicides', 'PLP-dependent enzymes', 'DOPA', 'decarboxylase', 'ornithine', 'decarboxylase', 'African sleeping sickness', 'alanine racemase', 'antibacterial agents', 'human cytosolic branched-chain aminotransferase', 'substrate-like or transition state-like drugs', 'PLP-dependent enzymes', 'PLP-dependent enzymes']}], 'authors': 'Moorthy, K.; Sharma, D.; Basir, S. F.; Baquer, N. Z.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Diversity of L-leucine catabolism in various microorganisms involved in dairy fermentations, and identification of the rate-controlling step in the formation of the potent flavour component 3-methylbutanal'}, {'document': ["Intrastriatal infusion of nanomolar concentrations of kynurenic acid (KYNA), an astrocyte-derived neuroinhibitory tryptophan metabolite, reduces basal extracellular dopamine (DA) levels in the rat striatum.  This effect is initiated by the inhibition of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (alpha7nAChRs) on glutamatergic afferents.  The present study was designed to further investigate this functional link between KYNA and DA using striatal microdialysis in awake animals.  In rats, increases in KYNA, caused by intrastriatal infusions of KYNA itself (100 nM) or of KYNA's bioprecursor L-kynurenine (2 microM), were associated with substantial reductions in DA.  Co-infusion of KYNA with the alpha7nAChR agonist galantamine (5 microM), but not with the NMDA receptor agonist D-serine (100 nM), prevented this effect.  Moreover, KYNA also reduced DA levels in the NMDA-lesioned striatum.  Conversely, extracellular DA levels were enhanced when KYNA formation was compromised, either by astrocyte poisoning with fluorocitrate or by perfusion with aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA; 5 mM), a non-specific inhibitor of KYNA synthesis.  Notably, this effect of AOAA was prevented by co-perfusion with 100 nM KYNA.  In the striatum of 21 day-old mice with a targeted deletion of kynurenine aminotransferase II, extracellular KYNA levels were reduced by 67 +/- 6%, while extracellular DA levels were simultaneously increased by 170 +/- 14%.  Taken together, a picture emerges where fluctuations in the astrocytic production of KYNA, possibly through volume transmission, inversely regulate dopaminergic tone.  This newly uncovered mechanism may profoundly influence DA function under physiological and pathological conditions."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['further investigate this functional link'], 'process': ['Intrastriatal infusion of nanomolar concentrations', 'inhibition of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors', 'striatal microdialysis', 'increases in KYNA', 'intrastriatal infusions', 'reduced DA levels', 'KYNA formation', 'astrocyte poisoning with fluorocitrate', 'perfusion', 'targeted deletion of kynurenine aminotransferase II', 'fluctuations in the astrocytic production of KYNA', 'volume transmission', 'dopaminergic tone'], 'material': ['kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'astrocyte-derived neuroinhibitory tryptophan metabolite', 'alpha7nAChRs', 'glutamatergic afferents', 'KYNA', 'DA', 'KYNA', "KYNA's bioprecursor L-kynurenine", 'DA', 'KYNA', 'alpha7nAChR agonist', 'galantamine', 'NMDA receptor agonist', 'D-serine', 'KYNA', 'NMDA-lesioned striatum', 'extracellular DA', 'aminooxyacetic', 'AOAA', 'non-specific inhibitor of KYNA', 'AOAA', 'KYNA', 'extracellular KYNA', 'extracellular DA', 'DA']}], 'authors': 'Hoehne, Matthias; Schaetzle, Sebastian; Jochens, Helge; Robins, Karen; Bornscheuer, Uwe T.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.exger.2005.01.004', 'journal': 'Experimental Gerontology ', 'title': 'Identification of novel toxicity-associated metabolites by metabolomics and mass isotopomer analysis of acetaminophen metabolism in wild-type and Cyp2e1-null mice'}, {'document': ['As part of our analysis of branched-chain amino acid metabolism in plants, we analyzed the function of Arabidopsis thaliana BRANCHED-CHAIN AMINOTRANSFERASE4 (BCAT4).  Recombinant BCAT4 showed high efficiency with Met and its derivatives and the corresponding 2-oxo acids, suggesting its participation in the chain elongation pathway of Met-derived glucosinolate biosynthesis.  This was substantiated by in vivo analysis of two BCAT4 T-DNA knockout mutants, in which Met-derived aliphatic glucosinolate accumulation is reduced by approximately 50%.  The increase in free Met and S-methylmethionine levels in these mutants, together with in vitro substrate specificity, strongly implicate BCAT4 in catalysis of the initial deamination of Met to 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate.  BCAT4 transcription is induced by wounding and is predominantly observed in the phloem.  BCAT4 transcript accumulation also follows a diurnal rhythm, and green fluorescent protein tagging experiments and subcellular protein fractions show that BCAT4 is located in the cytosol.  The assignment of BCAT4 to the Met chain elongation pathway documents the close evolutionary relationship of this pathway to Leu biosynthesis.  In addition to BCAT4, the enzyme methylthioalkylmalate synthase 1 has been recruited for the Met chain elongation pathway from a gene family involved in Leu formation.  This suggests that the two pathways have a common evolutionary origin.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['analysis of branched-chain amino acid metabolism'], 'process': ['chain elongation pathway of Met-derived glucosinolate biosynthesis', 'in vivo analysis', 'in vitro substrate specificity', 'catalysis', 'wounding', 'transcript accumulation', 'green fluorescent protein tagging experiments', 'Met chain elongation pathway', 'Leu biosynthesis', 'Met chain elongation pathway', 'Leu formation'], 'material': ['Arabidopsis thaliana BRANCHED-CHAIN AMINOTRANSFERASE4', 'BCAT4', 'BCAT4', 'Met', '2-oxo', 'BCAT4 T-DNA knockout mutants', 'Met-derived aliphatic glucosinolate', 'Met', 'S-methylmethionine', 'BCAT4', 'Met', '4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate', 'BCAT4', 'phloem', 'BCAT4', 'subcellular protein fractions', 'BCAT4', 'cytosol', 'BCAT4', 'BCAT4', 'methylthioalkylmalate synthase 1']}], 'authors': 'Steffen-Munsberg, Fabian; Vickers, Clare; Thontowi, Ahmad; Schaetzle, Sebastian; Meinhardt, Tina; Svedendahl Humble, Maria; Land, Henrik; Berglund, Per; Bornscheuer, Uwe T.; Hoehne, Matthias', 'DOI': '10.1038/nchembio.447', 'journal': 'Nature Chemical Biology ', 'title': 'Administration of estradiol and progesterone modulate the activities of antioxidant enzyme and aminotransferases in naturally menopausal rats'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND & AIMS:  Ethanol causes both tolerance and sensitization of Kupffer cells.  This study was designed to evaluate temporal effects of ethanol in an attempt to understand this paradox.  METHODS:  Rats were given ethanol (4 g/kg body wt) intragastrically, and Kupffer cells were isolated 0-48 hours later.  After addition of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) was measured using a microspectrofluorometer with the fluorescent indicator fura-2, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.  CD14 was evaluated by Western and Northern analysis.  RESULTS:  Two hours after ethanol administration, the LPS-induced increase in [Ca2+]i and TNF-alpha release by Kupffer cells was diminished by 50%, and these parameters were reciprocally enhanced twofold at 24 hours.  Sterilization of the gut with antibiotics blocked all effects of ethanol on [Ca2+]i and TNF-alpha release completely.  Twenty-four hours after ethanol, CD14 in Kupffer cells was elevated about fivefold.  CONCLUSIONS:  Kupffer cells isolated from rats early after ethanol exhibited tolerance to LPS, whereas sensitization was observed later.  It is likely that both of these phenomena are caused by gut-derived endotoxin and that sensitization in Kupffer cells is caused by increases in CD14.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['evaluate temporal effects', 'understand this paradox'], 'process': ['tumor necrosis factor', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay', 'Western and Northern analysis', 'Sterilization of the gut', 'TNF-alpha release', 'sensitization', 'sensitization', 'increases in CD14'], 'material': ['Ethanol', 'Kupffer cells', 'ethanol', 'ethanol', 'Kupffer cells', 'lipopolysaccharide', 'LPS', 'intracellular calcium concentration', '[Ca2+]i)', 'fura-2', 'TNF', 'CD14', 'ethanol', 'LPS', 'TNF', 'Kupffer cells', 'ethanol', 'ethanol', 'CD14', 'Kupffer cells', 'Kupffer cells', 'LPS', 'gut-derived endotoxin', 'Kupffer cells']}], 'authors': 'Mutti, Francesco G.; Fuchs, Christine S.; Pressnitz, Desiree; Turrini, Nikolaus G.; Sattler, Johann H.; Lerchner, Alexandra; Skerra, Arne; Kroutil, Wolfgang', 'DOI': '10.1002/cctc.201200545', 'journal': 'ChemCatChem ', 'title': 'Rational assignment of key motifs for function guides in silico enzyme identification'}, {'document': ['The main pathway for the hepatic oxidation of ethanol to acetaldehyde proceeds via ADH and is associated with the reduction of NAD to NADH; the latter produces a striking redox change with various associated metabolic disorders.  NADH also inhibits xanthine dehydrogenase activity, resulting in a shift of purine oxidation to xanthine oxidase, thereby promoting the generation of oxygen-free radical species.  NADH also supports microsomal oxidations, including that of ethanol, in part via transhydrogenation to NADPH.  In addition to the classic alcohol dehydrogenase pathway, ethanol can also be reduced by an accessory but inducible microsomal ethanoloxidizing system.  This induction is associated with proliferation of the endoplasmic reticulum, both in experimental animals and in humans, and is accompanied by increased oxidation of NADPH with resulting H2O2 generation.  There is also a concomitant 4- to 10-fold induction of cytochrome P4502E1 (2E1) both in rats and in humans, with hepatic perivenular preponderance.  This 2E1 induction contributes to the well-known lipid peroxidation associated with alcoholic liver injury, as demonstrated by increased rates of superoxide radical production and lipid peroxidation correlating with the amount of 2E1 in liver microsomal preparations and the inhibition of lipid peroxidation in liver microsomes by antibodies against 2E1 in control and ethanol-fed rats.  Indeed, 2E1 is rather "leaky" and its operation results in a significant release of free radicals.  In addition, induction of this microsomal system results in enhanced acetaldehyde production, which in turn impairs defense systems against oxidative stress.  For instance, it decreases GSH by various mechanisms, including binding to cysteine or by provoking its leakage out of the mitochondria and of the cell.  Hepatic GSH depletion after chronic alcohol consumption was shown both in experimental animals and in humans.  Alcohol-induced increased GSH turnover was demonstrated indirectly by a rise in alpha-amino-n-butyric acid in rats and baboons and in volunteers given alcohol.  The ultimate precursor of cysteine (one of the three amino acids of GSH) is methionine.  Methionine, however, must be first activated to S-adenosylmethionine by an enzyme which is depressed by alcoholic liver disease.  This block can be bypassed by SAMe administration which restores hepatic SAMe levels and attenuates parameters of ethanol-induced liver injury significantly such as the increase in circulating transaminases, mitochondrial lesions, and leakage of mitochondrial enzymes (e.g., glutamic dehydrogenase) into the bloodstream.  SAMe also contributes to the methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidylcholine.  The methyltransferase involved is strikingly depressed by alcohol consumption, but this can be corrected, and hepatic phosphatidylcholine levels restored, by the administration of a mixture of polyunsaturated phospholipids (polyenylphosphatidylcholine).  In addition, PPC provided total protection against alcohol-induced septal fibrosis and cirrhosis in the baboon and it abolished an associated twofold rise in hepatic F2-isoprostanes, a product of lipid peroxidation.  A similar effect was observed in rats given CCl4.  Thus, PPC prevented CCl4- and alcohol-induced lipid peroxidation in rats and baboons, respectively, while it attenuated the associated liver injury.  Similar studies are ongoing in humans.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['hepatic oxidation', 'alcoholic liver injury'], 'process': ['reduction of NAD to NADH', 'inhibits xanthine dehydrogenase activity', 'purine oxidation', 'microsomal oxidations', 'transhydrogenation', 'alcohol dehydrogenase pathway', 'proliferation of the endoplasmic', 'oxidation of NADPH', 'H2O2 generation', 'hepatic perivenular preponderance', '2E1 induction', 'lipid peroxidation', 'superoxide radical production', 'lipid peroxidation', 'inhibition of lipid peroxidation', 'induction of this microsomal system', 'acetaldehyde production', 'impairs defense systems', 'oxidative stress', 'decreases GSH', 'leakage out of the mitochondria and of the cell', 'Hepatic GSH depletion', 'chronic alcohol consumption', 'increased GSH turnover', 'rise in alpha-amino-n-butyric', 'activated', 'alcoholic liver disease', 'SAMe administration', 'ethanol-induced liver injury', 'mitochondrial lesions', 'leakage of mitochondrial enzymes', 'glutamic dehydrogenase', 'methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidylcholine', 'alcohol consumption', 'alcohol-induced septal fibrosis', 'lipid peroxidation', 'lipid peroxidation', 'liver injury'], 'material': ['ethanol', 'acetaldehyde', 'ADH', 'NADH', 'xanthine oxidase', 'oxygen-free radical species', 'NADH', 'ethanol', 'NADPH', 'ethanol', 'accessory but inducible microsomal ethanoloxidizing system', 'experimental animals', 'cytochrome P4502E1', '2E1', '2E1', 'liver microsomal preparations', 'liver microsomes', '2E1', 'ethanol', '2E1', 'free radicals', 'cysteine', 'experimental animals', 'Alcohol', 'rats', 'baboons', 'alcohol', 'ultimate precursor of cysteine', 'GSH', 'methionine', 'Methionine', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'SAMe', 'hepatic phosphatidylcholine', 'mixture of polyunsaturated phospholipids', 'polyenylphosphatidylcholine', 'PPC', 'baboon', 'hepatic F2-isoprostanes', 'rats', 'CCl4', 'PPC', 'CCl4-', 'rats', 'baboons']}], 'authors': 'Christen P; Mehta P K', 'DOI': '10.1002/ejoc.201101476', 'journal': 'European Journal of Organic Chemistry ', 'title': 'Revealing the Structural Basis of Promiscuous Amine Transaminase Activity'}, {'document': ['Arginine catabolism produces ammonia without transferring nitrogen to another compound, yet the only known pathway of arginine catabolism in Escherichia coli (through arginine decarboxylase) does not produce ammonia.  Our aims were to find the ammonia-producing pathway of arginine catabolism in E. coli and to examine its function.  We showed that the only previously described pathway of arginine catabolism, which does not produce ammonia, accounted for only 3% of the arginine consumed.  A search for another arginine catabolic pathway led to discovery of the ammonia-producing arginine succinyltransferase (AST) pathway in E. coli.  Nitrogen limitation induced this pathway in both E. coli and Klebsiella aerogenes, but the mechanisms of activation clearly differed in these two organisms.  We identified the E. coli gene for succinylornithine aminotransferase, the third enzyme of the AST pathway, which appears to be the first of an astCADBE operon.  Its disruption prevented arginine catabolism, impaired ornithine utilization, and affected the synthesis of all the enzymes of the AST pathway.  Disruption of astB eliminated succinylarginine dihydrolase activity and prevented arginine utilization but did not impair ornithine catabolism.  Overproduction of AST enzymes resulted in faster growth with arginine and aspartate.  We conclude that the AST pathway is necessary for aerobic arginine catabolism in E. coli and that at least one enzyme of this pathway contributes to ornithine catabolism.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['ammonia-producing pathway of arginine catabolism', 'ornithine catabolism'], 'process': ['Arginine catabolism', 'arginine catabolism', 'arginine decarboxylase', 'arginine catabolism', 'arginine catabolic pathway', 'ammonia-producing arginine succinyltransferase', 'AST', 'Nitrogen limitation', 'AST pathway', 'astCADBE operon', 'arginine catabolism', 'ornithine utilization', 'synthesis of all the enzymes', 'AST pathway', 'succinylarginine dihydrolase activity', 'arginine utilization', 'ornithine catabolism', 'Overproduction of', 'AST pathway', 'aerobic arginine catabolism'], 'material': ['E. coli', 'arginine', 'E. coli', 'Klebsiella', 'E. coli gene', 'succinylornithine aminotransferase', 'astB', 'AST enzymes', 'arginine', 'aspartate']}], 'authors': 'Swartz K J; During M J; Freese A; Beal M F', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': "cofactor to enzymes. The molecular evolution of pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme", 'title': 'Amination of Ketones by Employing Two New (S)-Selective ω-Transaminases and the His-Tagged ω-TA from Vibrio fluvialis'}, {'document': ['Angiotensin (Ang)-(1-7) has been described as an important tool on treating and preventing metabolic disorders.  In this study, we aimed to evaluate the effect of an oral formulation of Ang-(1-7) included in hydroxypropylβ-cyclodextrin (HPβCD/Ang-[1-7]) on hepatic function, steatosis, and on liver inflammatory markers expression in mice treated with a high-fat diet.  Male FVB/N mice were divided into 4 groups and fed for 60 days, with each group receiving 1 of the following diets: std. diet+HPβCD, std. diet+Ang-(1-7)/HPβCD, high-fat diet+HPβCD, or high-fat diet+Ang-[1-7]/HPβCD.  Body wt., food intake, and blood parameters, such as total cholesterol, triglyceride, alaninetransaminases, and aspartate transaminases, were evaluated.  Immunohistochem. analyses were performed for inflammatory markers tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6.  Expression of angiotensin converting enzyme, angiotensin-converting enzyme-2, interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6, transforming growth factor-β, acetyl-CoA carboxylase, carbohydrate-responsive element-binding protein, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, and sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c was evaluated by quant. real-time polymerase chain reaction.  The major findings of our study included reduced liver fat mass and wt., decreased plasma total cholesterol, triglyceride, and alaninetransaminase enzyme levels in the oral Ang-(1-7)-treated groups compared with the control groups.  These results were accompanied by a significant redn. in tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 mRNA expression in the liver.  Analyses of liver adipogenesis-related genes by quant. real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that acetyl-CoA carboxylase, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, and sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c mRNA expression were significantly suppressed.  In conclusion, we obsd. that treatment with Ang-(1-7) improved metab. and decreased proinflammatory profile and fat deposition in liver of mice.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Angiotensin (Ang)-(1-7', 'treating and preventing metabolic disorders', 'transforming growth factor'], 'process': ['hepatic function', 'steatosis', 'Immunohistochem. analyses', 'carbohydrate-responsive element-binding protein', 'peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ', 'sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c', 'quant. real-time polymerase chain reaction', 'reduced liver fat mass and wt', 'decreased plasma total cholesterol', 'tumor necrosis factor-α', 'quant', 'real-time polymerase chain reaction', 'sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c', 'mRNA expression', 'decreased proinflammatory profile', 'fat deposition'], 'material': ['oral formulation', 'Ang-(1-7', 'HPβCD', 'liver inflammatory markers', 'high-fat diet', 'Male FVB/N mice', 'std. diet+HPβCD', 'std.', 'high-fat diet+HPβCD', 'high-fat diet+Ang-[1', 'food intake', 'blood parameters', 'total cholesterol', 'aspartate transaminases', 'inflammatory markers', 'angiotensin converting', 'angiotensin-converting enzyme-2', 'tumor', 'interleukin-6', 'acetyl-CoA', 'oral Ang-(1-7)-treated groups', 'control groups', 'liver adipogenesis-related genes', 'acetyl-CoA carboxylase', 'peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ', 'Ang-(1-7']}], 'authors': 'Wurtman R J; Axelrod J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Chemical record ', 'title': "From cofactor to enzymes. The molecular evolution of pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes"}, {'document': ['Com. available ω-transaminases ω-TA-117, -113, and Vibrio fluvialis (Vf-AT) have been immobilized in a sol-gel matrix.  Improved results were obtained by employing Celite 545 as additive.  The immobilized ω-transaminases ω-TA-117, -113, and V. fluvialis (Vf-AT) were tested in the kinetic resoln. of α-chiral primary amines.  In contrast to the free enzyme ω-TA-117, the sol-gel/celite immobilized enzyme showed activity even at pH 11.  Recycling of the sol-gel/Celite 545 immobilized ω-transaminase ω-TA-117 was performed over five reaction cycles without any substantial loss in enantioselectivity and conversion.  Finally, the immobilized ω-TA 117 was employed in a one-pot two-step deracemization of rac-mexiletine and rac-4-phenyl-2-butylamine, two pharmacol. relevant amines.  The corresponding optically pure (S)-amines were obtained in up to 95% isolated yield (>99% ee).'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['kinetic resoln', 'conversion', 'one-pot two-step deracemization'], 'material': ['ω-transaminases', 'ω-TA-117', 'Vibrio', 'fluvialis', 'Vf-AT', 'sol-gel matrix', 'Celite 545', 'ω-transaminases', 'ω-TA-117', 'V. fluvialis', 'Vf', '-', 'AT', 'α-chiral primary amines', 'ω-TA-117', 'sol-gel/celite immobilized enzyme', 'sol-gel/Celite 545', 'ω-transaminase', 'ω-TA-117', 'ω-TA 117', 'rac-mexiletine', 'rac-4-phenyl-2-butylamine', 'optically pure', 'S)-amines were obtained']}], 'authors': 'El-Bahr, S. M.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience ', 'title': 'Cerebral synthesis and release of kynurenic acid: an endogenous antagonist of excitatory amino acid receptors'}, {'document': ['The subchronic treatment of mature female Wistar-strain albino rats in diestrous phase with sodium arsenite at a dose of 0.4 ppm/100 g body wt./rat/day via drinking water for period of 28 days (7 estrous cycles) caused a significant redn. in the plasma levels of LH, FSH, and estradiol along with a significant decrease in ovarian activities of Δ5,3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (Δ5,3β-HSD), and 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17β-HSD) followed by a redn. in ovarian and uterine peroxidase activities.  A significant wt. loss of the ovary and uterus was also obsd. after this treatment, along with a prolonged diestrous phase and a high accumulation of arsenic in the plasma and these organs.  Moreover, sodium arsenite was also responsible for ovarian follicular and uterine cell degeneration characterized by a high no. of regressing follicles and a redn. in the uterine luminal diam., resp., in comparison with the controls.  A dietary supplementation of sodium selenite at the dose of 0.6 mg/100 g body wt./rat/day for a period of 28 days along with arsenic treatment minimized the gonadal wt. loss significantly and increased the activities of the ovarian steroidogenic enzymes as well as the ovarian and uterine peroxidase at the control level.  Selenium was also able to increase the plasma levels of LH, FSH, and estradiol toward the control level.  Vaginal smears showed normal estrous cyclicity in sodium selenite-supplemented arsenic-treated rats along with lower arsenic levels in the plasma and gonadal tissue in comparison with arsenic-only-treated rats.  Histol. sections of ovary and uterine tissues in the control and exptl. groups confirmed that sodium selenite supplementation was able to prevent arsenic-induced histopathol. changes in the ovary and uterus.  Plasma levels of norepinephrine and dopamine in the midbrain and diencephalon decreased significantly, whereas the serotonin level was increased significantly after 28 days of sodium arsenite treatment.  All of these parameters were, in most cases, unchanged from the control level when sodium selenite was co-administered with sodium arsenite.  Arsenic intoxication was also assocd. with increased liver wt. and elevation in the activities of hepatic and renal acid phosphatase, alk. phosphatase, and transaminases, but selenium co-administration was not able to change these toxic effects of arsenic.  The results of our expts. indicate the significant protective action of sodium selenite on arsenic-induced toxicity in the female reproductive system, while there was no significant protective effect of selenium on arsenic-induced toxicity in other organs.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['subchronic treatment', 'Histol. sections', 'prevent arsenic-induced histopathol. changes'], 'process': ['redn', 'ovarian activities', 'hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase', 'HSD', 'redn', 'ovarian and uterine peroxidase activities', 'obsd', 'ovarian follicular and uterine cell degeneration', 'dietary supplementation', 'arsenic treatment', 'ovarian steroidogenic enzymes', 'ovarian and uterine peroxidase', 'increase the plasma levels of', 'sodium selenite supplementation', 'sodium arsenite treatment', 'Arsenic intoxication', 'increased liver wt', 'elevation in the activities of hepatic and renal acid phosphatase', 'arsenic-induced toxicity', 'arsenic-induced toxicity'], 'material': ['Wistar-strain albino rats', 'sodium arsenite', 'drinking water', 'LH', 'FSH', 'estradiol', '17β-hydroxysteroid', '17β-HSD', 'ovary', 'arsenic', 'plasma and these organs', 'sodium arsenite', 'sodium selenite', 'Selenium', 'LH', 'FSH', 'estradiol', 'Vaginal smears', 'sodium selenite-supplemented arsenic', 'arsenic', 'plasma and gonadal tissue', 'arsenic-only-treated rats', 'ovary and uterine tissues', 'ovary and uterus', 'Plasma levels', 'norepinephrine', 'dopamine', 'serotonin', 'sodium selenite', 'sodium arsenite', 'selenium', 'arsenic', 'sodium selenite', 'female reproductive system', 'selenium']}], 'authors': 'Zmarowski A; Wu H-Q; Brooks J M; Potter M C; Pellicciari R; Schwarcz R; Bruno J P', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Science ', 'title': 'Adrenaline synthesis: control by the pituitary gland and adrenal glucocorticoids'}, {'document': ['Swarming is an adaptation of many bacteria to growth on surfaces.  A search for genes controlling swarmer cell differentiation of Vibrio parahaemolyticus identified a novel three-gene operon that potentially encodes a pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent enzyme, an extracellular solute-binding protein, and a membrane-bound GGDEF- and EAL-motif sensory protein.  The functions of these motifs, which are named after conserved amino acid sequences, are unknown, although the domains are found singly and in combination in a variety of bacterial signaling proteins.  Studies with translational fusions supported the predicted localization of the gene products.  When the operon was overexpressed, swarmer cell gene transcription was induced in liquid culture.  Mutants with defects in any of the three genes exhibited decreased swarming and lateral flagellar (laf) gene expression.  Complementation studies confirmed an operon organization and suggested that all three genes participated in laf regulation.  The lesions that decreased swarming increased capsular polysaccharide (CPS) production, and overexpression of the operon inhibited transcription of the CPS gene cpsA.  Thus, the scrABC locus appears to inversely regulate two gene systems that are pertinent to colonization of surface swarming and CPS.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['adaptation of many bacteria', 'controlling swarmer cell differentiation', 'functions of these motifs', 'predicted localization of the gene products', 'colonization of surface swarming'], 'process': ['Swarming', 'growth on surfaces', 'translational fusions', 'swarming', 'laf', 'Complementation studies', 'operon organization', 'laf regulation', 'swarming', 'overexpression of the operon', 'CPS gene', 'scrABC locus'], 'material': ['pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent enzyme', 'extracellular solute-binding protein', 'membrane-bound GGDEF- and EAL-motif sensory protein', 'conserved amino acid sequences', 'bacterial signaling proteins', 'operon', 'swarmer cell gene', 'liquid culture', 'capsular polysaccharide', 'CPS', 'cpsA.', 'CPS']}], 'authors': 'Amadasi Alessio; Bertoldi Mariarita; Contestabile Roberto; Bettati Stefano; Cellini Barbara; di Salvo Martino Luigi; Borri-Voltattorni Carla; Bossa Francesco; Mozzarelli Andrea', 'DOI': '10.1002/ptr.5239', 'journal': 'Phytotherapy Research ', 'title': 'Effect of Curcumin on Hepatic Antioxidant Enzymes Activities and Gene Expressions in Rats Intoxicated with Aflatoxin B1'}, {'document': ['In the mammalian brain, kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II) and kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO), key enzymes of the kynurenine pathway (KP) of tryptophan degradation, form the neuroactive metabolites kynurenic acid (KYNA) and 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK), respectively.  Although physically segregated, both enzymes use the pivotal KP metabolite l-kynurenine as a substrate.  We studied the functional consequences of this cellular compartmentalization in vivo using two specific tools, the KAT II inhibitor BFF 122 and the KMO inhibitor UPF 648.  The acute effects of selective KAT II or KMO inhibition were studied using a radiotracing method in which the de novo synthesis of KYNA, and of 3-HK and its downstream metabolite quinolinic acid (QUIN), is monitored following an intrastriatal injection of (3)H-kynurenine.  In naive rats, intrastriatal BFF 122 decreased newly formed KYNA by 66%, without influencing 3-HK or QUIN production.  Conversely, UPF 648 reduced 3-HK synthesis (by 64%) without affecting KYNA formation.  Similar, selective effects of KAT II and KMO inhibition were observed when the inhibitors were applied acutely together with the excitotoxin QUIN, which impairs local KP metabolism.  Somewhat different effects of KMO (but not KAT II) inhibition were obtained in rats that had received an intrastriatal QUIN injection 7 days earlier.  In these neuron-depleted striata, UPF 648 not only decreased both 3-HK and QUIN production (by 77% and 66%, respectively) but also moderately raised KYNA synthesis (by 27%).  These results indicate a remarkable functional segregation of the two pathway branches in the brain, boding well for the development of selective KAT II or KMO inhibitors for cognitive enhancement and neuroprotection, respectively.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['acute effects', 'local KP metabolism', 'functional segregation'], 'process': ['kynurenine 3-monooxygenase', 'kynurenine pathway', 'KP', 'tryptophan degradation', 'cellular compartmentalization', 'selective KAT II', 'KMO inhibition', 'radiotracing method', 'de novo synthesis of KYNA', 'decreased newly formed KYNA', 'reduced 3-HK synthesis', 'KMO inhibition', 'KAT II) inhibition', 'QUIN injection', 'moderately raised KYNA synthesis', 'neuroprotection'], 'material': ['kynurenine', 'KAT', 'II', 'KMO', 'neuroactive metabolites', 'kynurenic', 'KYNA', '3-hydroxykynurenine', '3-HK', 'l-kynurenine', 'two specific tools', 'KAT II inhibitor', 'BFF', 'KMO inhibitor', 'UPF', '648', '3-HK', 'quinolinic', 'QUIN', 'intrastriatal injection', '(3)H-kynurenine', 'intrastriatal BFF', '3-HK', 'QUIN', 'UPF', '648', 'KYNA', 'KAT', 'II', 'QUIN', 'KMO', 'neuron-depleted striata', 'UPF', '3-HK', 'QUIN', 'selective KAT', 'KMO']}], 'authors': 'Wu H-Q; Rassoulpour A; Schwarcz R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The European journal of neuroscience ', 'title': 'Astrocyte-derived kynurenic acid modulates basal and evoked cortical acetylcholine release'}, {'document': ['Oxidative stress induced by mercuric chloride (5 mg/kg body wt. i.p.) in mice substantially increases the lipid peroxidn. level along with corresponding decrease in the reduced glutathione and various antioxidant enzymes in liver and increase in serum transaminases activity.  Supplementation of Spirulina (800 mg/kg body wt. orally, in olive oil, along with mercuric chloride) for 40 days resulted in decreased LPO level, serum glutamate oxaloacetate and serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase activity along with increase in liver GSH level.  The activities of antioxidants enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione-S-transferase were also concomitantly restored to near normal level by Spirulina supplementation to mercuric chloride intoxicated mice.  The results clearly demonstrate that Spirulina treatment augments the antioxidants defense mechanism in mercuric chloride induced toxicity and provides evidence that it may have a therapeutic role in free radical mediated diseases.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['free radical mediated diseases'], 'process': ['Oxidative stress', 'lipid peroxidn', 'Supplementation of', 'decreased LPO level', 'superoxide dismutase', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'Spirulina supplementation', 'Spirulina treatment', 'chloride induced toxicity'], 'material': ['mercuric chloride', 'reduced glutathione', 'Spirulina', 'olive oil', 'mercuric chloride', 'serum glutamate oxaloacetate', 'serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase activity', 'liver GSH', 'catalase', 'mercuric chloride intoxicated mice', 'mercuric']}], 'authors': 'Schuster Joachim; Knill Tanja; Reichelt Michael; Gershenzon Jonathan; Binder Stefan', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Current medicinal chemistry ', 'title': "Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate enzymes as targets for therapeutic agents"}, {'document': ["BACKGROUND:  Folate synthesis and salvage pathways are relatively well known from classical biochemistry and genetics but they have not been subjected to comparative genomic analysis.  The availability of genome sequences from hundreds of diverse bacteria, and from Arabidopsis thaliana, enabled such an analysis using the SEED database and its tools.  This study reports the results of the analysis and integrates them with new and existing experimental data.  RESULTS:  Based on sequence similarity and the clustering, fusion, and phylogenetic distribution of genes, several functional predictions emerged from this analysis.  For bacteria, these included the existence of novel GTP cyclohydrolase I and folylpolyglutamate synthase gene families, and of a trifunctional p-aminobenzoate synthesis gene.  For plants and bacteria, the predictions comprised the identities of a 'missing' folate synthesis gene (folQ) and of a folate transporter, and the absence from plants of a folate salvage enzyme.  Genetic and biochemical tests bore out these predictions.  CONCLUSION:  For bacteria, these results demonstrate that much can be learnt from comparative genomics, even for well-explored primary metabolic pathways.  For plants, the findings particularly illustrate the potential for rapid functional assignment of unknown genes that have prokaryotic homologs, by analyzing which genes are associated with the latter.  More generally, our data indicate how combined genomic analysis of both plants and prokaryotes can be more powerful than isolated examination of either group alone."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['rapid functional assignment'], 'process': ['Folate synthesis and salvage pathways', 'comparative genomic analysis', 'clustering', 'fusion', 'functional predictions', 'folate transporter', 'Genetic and biochemical tests', 'comparative genomics', 'primary metabolic pathways', 'combined genomic analysis', 'isolated examination of either group'], 'material': ['genome sequences', 'bacteria', 'Arabidopsis thaliana', 'SEED database', 'experimental data', 'bacteria', 'GTP cyclohydrolase I', 'folylpolyglutamate synthase gene', 'trifunctional p-aminobenzoate synthesis gene', 'plants', "'missing' folate synthesis gene", 'folQ', 'folate salvage enzyme', 'bacteria', 'prokaryotic homologs', 'plants', 'prokaryotes']}], 'authors': 'Enomoto N; Ikejima K; Bradford B; Rivera C; Kono H; Brenner D A; Thurman R G', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of neural transmission ', 'title': 'Kynurenic acid leads, dopamine follows: a new case of volume transmission in the brain?'}, {'document': ['The synthesis of meso-diaminopimelic acid (m-DAP) in bacteria is essential for both peptidoglycan and lysine biosynthesis.  From genome sequencing data, it was unclear how bacteria of the Chlamydiales order would synthesize m-DAP in the absence of dapD, dapC, and dapE, which are missing from the genome.  Here, we assessed the biochemical capacity of Chlamydia trachomatis serovar L2 to synthesize m-DAP.  Expression of the chlamydial asd, dapB, and dapF genes in the respective Escherichia coli m-DAP auxotrophic mutants restored the mutants to DAP prototrophy.  Screening of a C. trachomatis genomic library in an E. coli DeltadapD DAP auxotroph identified ct390 as encoding an enzyme that restored growth to the Escherichia coli mutant. ct390 also was able to complement an E. coli DeltadapD DeltadapE, but not a DeltadapD DeltadapF mutant, providing genetic evidence that it encodes an aminotransferase that may directly convert tetrahydrodipicolinate to L,L-diaminopimelic acid.  This hypothesis was supported by in vitro kinetic analysis of the CT390 protein and the fact that similar properties were demonstrated for the Protochlamydia amoebophila homologue, PC0685.  In vivo, the C. trachomatis m-DAP synthesis genes are expressed as early as 8 h after infection.  An aminotransferase activity analogous to CT390 recently has been characterized in plants and cyanobacteria.  This previously undescribed pathway for m-DAP synthesis supports an evolutionary relationship among the chlamydiae, cyanobacteria, and plants and strengthens the argument that chlamydiae synthesize a cell wall despite the inability of efforts to date to detect peptidoglycan in these organisms.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['synthesis of meso-diaminopimelic acid', 'peptidoglycan and lysine biosynthesis', 'genome sequencing data', 'complement an', 'aminotransferase that may', 'in vitro kinetic analysis', 'aminotransferase activity', 'm-DAP synthesis', 'synthesize a cell wall'], 'material': ['m-DAP', 'bacteria', 'm-DAP', 'dapD', 'dapC', 'dapE', 'Chlamydia trachomatis serovar', 'm-DAP', 'chlamydial', 'asd', 'dapB', 'dapF', 'Escherichia coli m-DAP auxotrophic mutants', 'DAP prototrophy', 'C. trachomatis genomic library', 'E. coli DeltadapD DAP auxotroph', 'ct390', 'enzyme', 'ct390', 'E. coli DeltadapD DeltadapE', 'DeltadapD DeltadapF mutant', 'L,L-diaminopimelic', 'CT390 protein', 'Protochlamydia amoebophila homologue', 'PC0685', 'C. trachomatis m-DAP synthesis genes', 'plants', 'cyanobacteria', 'chlamydiae', 'cyanobacteria', 'plants', 'chlamydiae']}], 'authors': 'Lieber C S', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Plant cell ', 'title': 'Branched-chain aminotransferase4 is part of the chain elongation pathway in the biosynthesis of methionine-derived glucosinolates in Arabidopsis'}, {'document': ['Turnover of the rat liver tyrosine transaminase in vivo was measured by a label and chase procedure under conditions where the amount of enzyme undergoes no change.  Half-life of the (14)C-labeled enzyme in this basal condition was found to be 1.5 +/- 0.3 hours.  Inhibitors of protein synthesis (cycloheximide or puromycin) do not appreciably influence the basal enzyme level over a 5-hour period, although these drugs will block hormonal induction of this enzyme.  In pulse-labeling experiments, cycloheximide blocked transaminase synthesis almost completely.  The conclusion that enzyme degradation, as well as synthesis, must be blocked when protein synthesis is stopped was confirmed in experiments showing that labeled enzyme is stable in the liver of rats treated with cycloheximide The participation of a continuously synthesized polypeptide in the degradative phase of transaminase turnover is suggested.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Turnover of the'], 'process': ['label and chase procedure', 'Inhibitors of protein synthesis', 'hormonal induction', 'pulse-labeling experiments', 'transaminase synthesis', 'enzyme degradation', 'synthesis', 'protein synthesis', 'transaminase turnover'], 'material': ['rat liver tyrosine transaminase', 'enzyme', '(14)C-labeled enzyme', 'cycloheximide', 'puromycin', 'cycloheximide', 'continuously synthesized polypeptide']}], 'authors': 'GARREN L D; HOWELL R R; TOMKINS G M; CROCCO R M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Gastroenterology ', 'title': 'Alcohol causes both tolerance and sensitization of rat Kupffer cells via mechanisms dependent on endotoxin'}, {'document': ['Lupeol, a triterpene, possesses numerous pharmacol. activities, including anti-malarial, anti-arthritic and anti-carcinogenic properties.  The present study was conducted to explore the hepatoprotective potential of lupeol against acetaminophen (AAP)-induced hepatotoxicity in Wistar rats.  Rats were given a prophylactic treatment of lupeol (150 mg/kg body wt., p.o., for 30 consecutive days) with a co-administration of AAP (1 g/kg body wt.).  The modulatory effects of lupeol on AAP-induced hepatotoxicity were investigated by assaying oxidative stress biomarkers, serum liver toxicity markers, pro/anti apoptotic proteins, DNA fragmentation and by the histopathol. examn. of the liver.  Lupeol significantly prevented hepatic damage as evident from the histopathol. studies and significant decline in serum trans-aminases.  The alterations in cellular redox status (p < 0.01) and antioxidant enzyme activities together with the enhanced lipid peroxidn. and protein carbonyl levels were also obsd. in the AAP-treated rats.  In addn., significant ROS generation and mitochondrial depolarization were obsd. in this group.  Co-administration of lupeol significantly decreased the level of serum transaminases, MDA and protein carbonyl content.  It also prevented ROS generation and mitochondrial depolarization.  Furthermore, lupeol enhanced the mitochondrial antioxidant and redox status and inhibited DNA damage and cell death by preventing the downregulation of Bcl-2, upregulation of Bax, release of cytochrome c and the activation of caspase 9/3.  The conclusion of this study is that lupeol when co-administered with AAP effectively reduces oxidative stress and prevents AAP-induced hepatotoxicity by inhibiting crit. control points of apoptosis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pharmacol. activities', 'anti-arthritic and anti-carcinogenic properties', 'hepatoprotective potential of', 'upregulation of Bax'], 'process': ['anti-malarial', 'prophylactic treatment', 'AAP-induced hepatotoxicity', 'DNA fragmentation', 'histopathol. examn', 'prevented hepatic damage', 'histopathol. studies', 'alterations in cellular redox status', 'antioxidant enzyme activities', 'lipid peroxidn', 'ROS generation', 'mitochondrial depolarization', 'prevented ROS generation', 'mitochondrial depolarization', 'DNA damage', 'downregulation of Bcl-2', 'release of cytochrome c', 'activation of caspase 9/3.', 'reduces oxidative stress', 'prevents AAP', 'inhibiting crit. control points'], 'material': ['Lupeol', 'lupeol', 'lupeol', 'co-administration', 'AAP', 'lupeol', 'oxidative stress biomarkers', 'serum liver toxicity markers', 'pro/anti apoptotic proteins', 'Lupeol', 'serum trans-aminases', 'protein carbonyl', 'AAP-treated rats', 'lupeol', 'serum transaminases', 'MDA', 'protein carbonyl', 'lupeol', 'lupeol', 'AAP']}], 'authors': 'Schneider B L; Kiupakis A K; Reitzer L J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Advances in pharmacology ', 'title': 'Role of oxidative stress and antioxidant therapy in alcoholic and nonalcoholic liver diseases'}, {'document': ['Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is an autosomal recessive, inherited disorder of glyoxylate metabolism arising from a deficiency of the alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) enzyme, encoded by the AGXT gene.  The disease is manifested by excessive endogenous oxalate production, which leads to impaired renal function and associated morbidity.  At least 146 mutations have now been described, 50 of which are newly reported here.  The mutations, which occur along the length of the AGXT gene, are predominantly single-nucleotide substitutions (75%), 73 are missense, 19 nonsense, and 18 splice mutations; but 36 major and minor deletions and insertions are also included.  There is little association of mutation with ethnicity, the most obvious exception being the p.Ile244Thr mutation, which appears to have North African/Spanish origins.  A common, polymorphic variant encoding leucine at codon 11, the so-called minor allele, has significantly lower catalytic activity in vitro, and has a higher frequency in PH1 compared to the rest of the population.  This polymorphism influences enzyme targeting in the presence of the most common Gly170Arg mutation and potentiates the effect of several other pathological sequence variants.  This review discusses the spectrum of AGXT mutations and polymorphisms, their clinical significance, and their diagnostic relevance.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['glyoxylate metabolism', 'catalytic activity', 'enzyme targeting', 'discusses the spectrum of AGXT mutations'], 'process': ['Primary hyperoxaluria', 'PH1', 'deficiency of the alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (', 'AGT', 'excessive endogenous oxalate production', 'mutations', 'single-nucleotide substitutions', 'splice mutations', 'mutation', 'p.Ile244Thr mutation', 'Gly170Arg mutation', 'pathological sequence variants'], 'material': ['autosomal recessive, inherited disorder', 'AGXT gene', 'AGXT gene', 'minor allele', 'PH1']}], 'authors': 'Feltenberger, John David; Andrade, Joao Marcus Oliveira; Paraiso, Alanna; Barros, Lucas Oliveira; Filho, Aristides Batista Maia; Sinisterra, Ruben D. M.; Sousa, Frederico B.; Guimaraes, Andre Luiz Sena; de Paula, Alfredo Mauricio Batista; Campagnole-Santos, Maria Jose; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'A PARADOXICAL EFFECT OF ACTINOMYCIN D: THE MECHANISM OF REGULATION OF ENZYME SYNTHESIS BY HYDROCORTISONE'}, {'document': ['Reported are the clinical and pathologic features of glycogenic hepatopathy, a pathologic overloading of hepatocytes with glycogen that is associated with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus.  Fourteen cases were studied by stains, including hematoxylin and eosin, trichrome, periodic acid-Schiff, and periodic acid-Schiff with diastase.  Ultrastructural analysis was performed in 2 cases.  Medical records were reviewed for clinical presentations, laboratory findings, and clinical outcomes.  The individuals ranged from 8 to 25 years of age.  All had type I diabetes mellitus with poor glycemic control.  The clinical presentations included hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, and elevated transaminases (range, 50-1600 IU/L).  The transaminases were dramatically elevated in 3 cases to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal.  All biopsies showed diffusely pale staining hepatocytes on hematoxylin and eosin stains, with excessive glycogen accumulation demonstrated by periodic acid-Schiff stains.  Ultrastructural examination revealed marked glycogen accumulation in the cytoplasm and nuclei.  Most cases showed no evidence for fatty liver disease: steatosis was absent in 12 of 14 cases, simple steatosis was seen in 1 of 14 cases, and mild steatohepatitis was present in 1 of 14 cases.  Mallory hyaline was absent in all cases, acidophil bodies were only rarely seen, and inflammation was absent or minimally present.  Fibrosis was typically absent, with only 2 cases demonstrating focal mild fibrosis.  Three patients had adequate follow-up and demonstrated improvement of liver enzyme levels with control of blood glucose.  We conclude that glycogenic hepatopathy can cause hepatomegaly and significant transaminase elevations in individuals with type I diabetes mellitus.  The pathology is distinct from steatohepatitis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['clinical presentations', 'clinical outcomes', 'fatty liver disease'], 'process': ['glycogenic hepatopathy', 'pathologic overloading of hepatocytes with glycogen', 'stains', 'periodic acid-Schiff with diastase', 'Ultrastructural analysis', 'abdominal pain', 'elevated transaminases', 'transaminases', 'excessive glycogen accumulation', 'Ultrastructural examination', 'glycogen accumulation', 'steatosis', 'simple steatosis', 'mild steatohepatitis', 'inflammation', 'Fibrosis', 'improvement of liver enzyme levels with control of blood glucose', 'glycogenic hepatopathy', 'significant transaminase elevations'], 'material': ['clinical and pathologic features', 'hematoxylin', 'eosin', 'trichrome', 'periodic acid-Schiff', 'Medical records', 'type I diabetes', 'diffusely pale staining hepatocytes', 'hematoxylin and eosin stains', 'periodic acid-Schiff stains', 'Mallory hyaline', 'acidophil bodies', 'steatohepatitis']}], 'authors': 'Koszelewski, Dominik; Mueller, Nicole; Schrittwieser, Joerg H.; Faber, Kurt; Kroutil, Wolfgang', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Arginine catabolism and the arginine succinyltransferase pathway in Escherichia coli'}, {'document': ['Tamoxifen citrate is an anti-estrogenic drug used for the treatment of breast cancer.  It showed a degree of hepatic carcinogenesis, when it used for long term as it can decrease the hexose monophosphate shunt and thereby increasing the incidence of oxidative stress in liver rat cells leading to liver injury.  In this study, a model of liver injury in female rats was done by i.p. injection of tamoxifen in a dose of 45 mg/kg body wt. for 7 successive days.  This model produced a state of oxidative stress accompanied with liver injury as noticed by significant declines in the antioxidant enzymes (glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase and catalase) and reduced glutathione concomitant with significant elevations in TBARS (thiobarbituric acid reactive substance) and liver transaminases; sGPT (serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase) and sGOT (serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase) levels.  The oral administration of di-Me dimethoxy biphenyl dicarboxylate (DDB) in a dose of 200 mg/kg body wt. daily for 10 successive days, resulted in alleviation of the oxidative stress status of tamoxifen-intoxicated liver injury in rats as obsd. by significant increments in the antioxidant enzymes (glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase and catalase) and reduced glutathione concomitant with significant decrements in TBARS and liver transaminases; sGPT and sGOT levels.  The administration of DDB before tamoxifen intoxication (as protection) is more little effective than its curative effect against tamoxifen-induced liver injury.  The data obtained from this study speculated that DDB can mediate its biochem. effects through the enhancement of the antioxidant enzyme activities and reduced glutathione level as well as decreasing lipid peroxides.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treatment of breast cancer', 'model of liver injury', 'alleviation of the oxidative stress status'], 'process': ['hepatic carcinogenesis', 'decrease the hexose monophosphate shunt', 'oxidative stress', 'liver injury', 'oxidative stress', 'liver injury', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'sGPT', 'oral administration', 'tamoxifen-intoxicated liver injury', 'protection', 'liver injury', 'enhancement of the antioxidant enzyme activities', 'reduced glutathione level', 'decreasing lipid peroxides'], 'material': ['Tamoxifen citrate', 'anti-estrogenic drug', 'liver rat cells', 'female rats', 'tamoxifen', 'antioxidant enzymes', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'catalase', 'reduced glutathione', 'TBARS', 'thiobarbituric acid reactive substance', 'serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase', 'sGOT', 'serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase', 'di-Me dimethoxy biphenyl dicarboxylate', 'DDB', 'antioxidant enzymes', 'glutathione', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'catalase', 'reduced glutathione', 'TBARS', 'sGPT', 'sGOT', 'DDB', 'tamoxifen', 'tamoxifen', 'DDB']}], 'authors': 'Chattopadhyay, Sandip; Pal, Sampa; Ghosh, Debidas; Debnath, Jogen', 'DOI': '10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.111.00919', 'journal': 'Hypertension ', 'title': 'Oral Formulation of Angiotensin-(1-7) Improves Lipid Metabolism and Prevents High-Fat Diet-Induced Hepatic Steatosis and Inflammation in Mice'}, {'document': ['Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate is a major intracellular messenger molecule thought to be formed almost exclusively by cytosolic, wortmannin-inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase family members.  Inositol polyphosphate multikinase was identified as an enzyme that generates a series of water-soluble inositol phosphates.  We now report the robust, physiologic, and evolutionarily conserved phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity of inositol polyphosphate multikinase, which is localized to nuclei and unaffected by wortmannin.  In yeast, this inositol lipid kinase activity physiologically regulates transcription.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity'], 'material': ['Phosphatidylinositol', '3,4,5-trisphosphate', 'intracellular messenger molecule', 'cytosolic, wortmannin-inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase family members', 'Inositol polyphosphate', 'enzyme', 'water-soluble inositol phosphates', 'inositol polyphosphate multikinase', 'wortmannin', 'yeast', 'inositol lipid kinase activity']}], 'authors': 'Boles Blaise R; McCarter Linda L', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.molcatb.2009.12.001', 'journal': 'Journal of Molecular Catalysis B: Enzymatic ', 'title': 'Immobilization of ω-transaminases by encapsulation in a sol-gel/celite matrix'}, {'document': ['At least two glyoxylate aminotransferases are hypothesized to participate in the steps of photorespiration located in peroxisomes.  Until recently, however, genes encoding these enzymes had not been identified.  We describe the isolation and characterization of an alanine : glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT1, formerly AGT) cDNA from Arabidopsis thaliana.  Southern blot analysis confirmed that Arabidopsis AGT1 is encoded by a single gene.  Homologs of this class IV aminotransferase are also known in other plants, animals, and methylotrophic bacteria, suggesting an ancient evolutionary origin of this enzyme.  AGT1 transcripts were present in all tissues of Arabidopsis, but were most abundant in green, leafy tissues.  Purified, recombinant Arabidopsis AGT1 expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed three transamination reactions using the following amino donor : acceptor combinations: alanine : glyoxylate, serine : glyoxylate, and serine : pyruvate.  AGT1 had the highest specific activity with the serine : glyoxylate transamination, and apparent Km measurements indicate that this is the preferred in vivo reaction.  In vitro import experiments and subcellular fractionations localized AGT1 to peroxisomes.  Sequence analysis of the photorespiratory sat mutants revealed a single nucleotide substitution in the AGT1 gene from these plants.  This transition mutation is predicted to result in a proline-to-leucine substitution at residue 251 of AGT1.  When this mutation was engineered into the recombinant AGT1 protein, enzymatic activity using all three donor : acceptor pairs was abolished.  We conclude that Arabidopsis AGT1 is a peroxisomal photorespiratory enzyme that catalyzes transamination reactions with multiple substrates.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enzymatic activity'], 'process': ['photorespiration', 'Southern blot analysis', 'serine : glyoxylate transamination', 'apparent Km measurements', 'in vivo reaction', 'In vitro import experiments', 'subcellular fractionations', 'Sequence analysis', 'single nucleotide substitution', 'transition mutation', 'proline-to-leucine substitution', 'mutation', 'transamination reactions'], 'material': ['glyoxylate aminotransferases', 'peroxisomes', 'alanine : glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT1', 'AGT', 'AGT1', 'single gene', 'class IV aminotransferase', 'animals', 'methylotrophic bacteria', 'AGT1 transcripts', 'green, leafy tissues', 'recombinant Arabidopsis AGT1', 'amino donor : acceptor combinations', 'alanine', 'glyoxylate', 'serine', 'glyoxylate', 'serine', 'pyruvate', 'AGT1', 'AGT1', 'photorespiratory sat mutants', 'AGT1', 'AGT1', 'recombinant AGT1 protein', 'Arabidopsis AGT1', 'peroxisomal photorespiratory enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Amori Laura; Guidetti Paolo; Pellicciari Roberto; Kajii Yasushi; Schwarcz Robert', 'DOI': '10.1093/toxsci/kfg194', 'journal': 'Toxicological Sciences ', 'title': 'Effect of Dietary Co-Administration of Sodium Selenite on Sodium Arsenite-Induced Ovarian and Uterine Disorders in Mature Albino Rats'}, {'document': ['A review of the effects of changes in dietary intake, hormones, and age on the activities of pancreatic amylase, lipase, and proteinases, liver tyrosine transaminase, tryptophan pyrrolase, enzymes of cysteine catabolism, glutamic-oxalacetic and glutamic-pyruvic transaminases, xanthine oxidase, arginase, and glutaminase.  275 references.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['review of the effects of changes in dietary intake, hormones, and age on the activities of pancreatic amylase'], 'process': [], 'material': ['lipase', 'proteinases', 'liver tyrosine transaminase', 'tryptophan pyrrolase', 'enzymes of cysteine catabolism', 'glutamic-oxalacetic and glutamic-pyruvic transaminases', 'xanthine oxidase', 'arginase', 'glutaminase']}], 'authors': 'Sharma, Mukesh Kumar; Sharma, Ambika; Kumar, Ashok; Kumar, Madhu', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Vibrio parahaemolyticus scrABC, a novel operon affecting swarming and capsular polysaccharide regulation'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Scrub typhus, a bacterial zoonosis caused by Orientia tsutsugamushi, may cause multiorgan dysfunction syndrome (MODS) and is associated with significant mortality.  This study was undertaken to document the clinical and laboratory manifestations and complications and to study time trends and factors associated with mortality in patients with scrub typhus infection.  METHODS:  This retrospective study, done at a university teaching hospital, included 623 patients admitted between 2005 and 2010 with scrub typhus.  The diagnosis was established by a positive IgM ELISA and/or pathognomonic eschar with PCR confirmation where feasible.  The clinical and laboratory profile, course in hospital, and outcome were documented.  Factors associated with mortality were analyzed using multivariate logistic regression analysis.  RESULTS:  The most common presenting symptoms were fever (100%), nausea/vomiting (54%), shortness of breath (49%), headache (46%), cough (38%), and altered sensorium (26%).  An eschar was present in 43.5% of patients.  Common laboratory findings included elevated transaminases (87%), thrombocytopenia (79%), and leukocytosis (46%).  MODS was seen in 34% of patients.  The overall case-fatality rate was 9.0%.  Features of acute lung injury were observed in 33.7%, and 29.5% required ventilatory support.  On multivariate analysis, shock requiring vasoactive agents (relative risk (RR) 10.5, 95% confidence interval (CI) 4.2-25.7, p<0.001), central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction (RR 5.1, 95% CI 2.4-10.7, p<0.001), and renal failure (RR 3.6, 95% CI 1.7-7.5, p=0.001) were independent predictors of mortality.  Over 4 years, a decreasing trend was observed in the mortality rate.  CONCLUSIONS:  Scrub typhus can manifest with potentially life-threatening complications such as lung injury, shock, and meningoencephalitis.  MODS occurred in a third of our patients.  The overall case-fatality rate was 9%, with shock, renal failure, and CNS associated with a higher mortality.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['mortality'], 'process': ['Scrub typhus', 'multiorgan dysfunction syndrome', 'MODS', 'scrub typhus infection', 'positive IgM ELISA and/or pathognomonic eschar', 'PCR confirmation', 'mortality', 'multivariate logistic regression analysis', 'fever', 'headache', 'cough', 'altered sensorium', 'elevated transaminases', 'thrombocytopenia', 'leukocytosis', 'MODS', 'acute lung injury', 'multivariate analysis', 'shock', 'RR', 'central nervous system (', 'renal failure', 'Scrub typhus', 'lung injury', 'shock', 'MODS', 'shock', 'renal failure', 'mortality'], 'material': ['bacterial zoonosis', 'university teaching hospital', '623 patients', 'scrub typhus', 'clinical and laboratory profile', 'eschar', 'CNS', 'mortality rate', 'CNS']}], 'authors': 'de Crecy-Lagard Valerie; El Yacoubi Basma; de la Garza Rocio Diaz; Noiriel Alexandre; Hanson Andrew D', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of neurochemistry ', 'title': 'On the relationship between the two branches of the kynurenine pathway in the rat brain in vivo'}, {'document': ['Tandem mass spectrometry was applied to detect derangements in the pathways of amino acid and fatty acid metabolism in N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-treated (ENU-treated) mice.  We identified mice with marked elevation of blood branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), ketoaciduria, and clinical features resembling human maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), a severe genetic metabolic disorder caused by the deficiency of branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex.  However, the BCKD genes and enzyme activity were normal.  Sequencing of branched-chain aminotransferase genes (Bcat) showed no mutation in the cytoplasmic isoform (Bcat-1) but revealed a homozygous splice site mutation in the mitochondrial isoform (Bcat-2).  The mutation caused a deletion of exon 2, a marked decrease in Bcat-2 mRNA, and a deficiency in both BCAT-2 protein and its enzyme activity.  Affected mice responded to a BCAA-restricted diet with amelioration of the clinical symptoms and normalization of the amino acid pattern.  We conclude that BCAT-2 deficiency in the mouse can cause a disease that mimics human MSUD.  These mice provide an important animal model for study of BCAA metabolism and its toxicity.  Metabolomics-guided screening, coupled with ENU mutagenesis, is a powerful approach in uncovering novel enzyme deficiencies and recognizing important pathways of genetic metabolic disorders.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['detect derangements in the pathways of amino acid and fatty acid metabolism', 'severe genetic metabolic disorder', 'amelioration of the clinical symptoms', 'study of BCAA metabolism', 'uncovering novel enzyme deficiencies', 'recognizing important pathways of genetic metabolic disorders'], 'process': ['Tandem mass spectrometry', 'maple syrup urine disease', 'MSUD', 'deficiency of branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase', 'BCKD', 'Sequencing of branched-chain aminotransferase genes', 'homozygous splice site mutation', 'deficiency in both BCAT-2 protein and its enzyme activity', 'normalization of the amino acid pattern', 'BCAT-2 deficiency', 'Metabolomics-guided screening', 'ENU mutagenesis'], 'material': ['N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea', 'ENU', 'blood branched-chain amino', 'BCAAs', 'ketoaciduria', 'BCKD genes', 'Bcat', 'cytoplasmic isoform', 'Bcat-1', 'mitochondrial isoform', 'Bcat-2', 'Bcat-2 mRNA', 'BCAA-restricted diet', 'mice', 'animal model']}], 'authors': 'McCoy Andrea J; Adams Nancy E; Hudson Andre O; Gilvarg Charles; Leustek Thomas; Maurelli Anthony T', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.fct.2007.06.023', 'journal': 'Food and Chemical Toxicology ', 'title': 'Spirulina fusiformis provides protection against mercuric chloride induced oxidative stress in Swiss albino mice'}, {'document': ['The synthesis of alcs. from amine starting materials is an excellent yet challenging strategy for the prepn. of pharmaceuticals and polymers.  Here we developed a versatile, self-sustaining closed-loop multienzymic platform for the biocatalytic synthesis of a large range of non-com. available products in a continuous flow with excellent yields (80 to >99%), reaction times and optical purity of secondary alcs. (>99 enantiomeric excess).  This process was also extended to the conversion of biogenic amines into high-value alcs., such as the powerful antioxidant hydroxytyrosol, and the synthesis of enantiopure 2-arylpropanols via the dynamic kinetic resoln. of com. affordable racemic amines.  The system exploits the in situ immobilization of transaminases and redox enzymes which were combined to cater for a fully automated, ultra-efficient synthetic platform with cofactor recycling, in-line recovery of benign byproducts and recirculation of the aq. media that contains the recycled cofactors in catalytic amts., which increases the efficiency of the system by over 20-fold.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prepn. of pharmaceuticals and polymers'], 'process': ['synthesis of alcs. from amine starting materials', 'biocatalytic synthesis', 'of a large range of non-com. available products', 'continuous flow', 'synthesis of enantiopure 2-arylpropanols', 'dynamic kinetic resoln. of com', 'in situ immobilization of transaminases', 'cofactor recycling', 'in-line recovery of benign byproducts'], 'material': ['versatile, self-sustaining closed-loop multienzymic platform', 'secondary alcs', 'biogenic amines', 'high-value alcs', 'powerful antioxidant', 'hydroxytyrosol', 'racemic amines', 'redox enzymes', 'aq. media', 'recycled cofactors', 'catalytic amts']}], 'authors': 'Kenney F T', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'BMC genomics ', 'title': 'Comparative genomics of bacterial and plant folate synthesis and salvage: predictions and validations'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  This study aimed to evaluate the effect of exosomes produced by human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (hiPSC-MSCs-Exo) on hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury.  METHODS:  Exosomes were isolated and concentrated from conditioned medium using ultracentrifugation and ultrafiltration. hiPSC-MSCs-Exo were injected systemically via the inferior vena cava in a rat model of 70% warm hepatic I/R injury, and the therapeutic effect was evaluated.  The serum levels of transaminases (aspartate aminotransferase [AST] and alanine aminotransferase [ALT]) were measured using an automatic analyzer.  The expression of inflammatory factors was measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).  Histological changes indicated changes in pathology and inflammatory infiltration in liver tissue.  Apoptosis of hepatic cells in liver tissue was measured using terminal-deoxynucleoitidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining along with apoptotic markers.  RESULTS:  hiPSCs were efficiently induced into hiPSC-MSCs with typical MSC characteristics. hiPSC-MSCs-Exo had diameters ranging from 50 to 60 nm and expressed exosomal markers (CD9, CD63 and CD81).  Hepatocyte necrosis and sinusoidal congestion were markedly suppressed with a lower Suzuki score after hiPSC-MSCs-Exo administration.  The levels of the hepatocyte injury markers AST and ALT were significantly lower in the treated group than in the control group.  Inflammatory markers, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-6 and high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), were significantly reduced after administration of hiPSC-MSCs-Exo, which suggests that the exosomes have a role in suppressing the inflammatory response.  Additionally, in liver tissues from the experimental group, the levels of apoptotic markers, such as caspase-3 and bax, were significantly lower and the levels of oxidative markers, such as glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and superoxide dismutase (SOD), were significantly higher than in the control group.  These data point to an anti-apoptotic, anti-oxidative stress response role for hiPSC-MSCs-Exo.  CONCLUSIONS:  Our results demonstrated that hiPSC-MSCs-Exo alleviate hepatic I/R injury, possibly via suppression of inflammatory responses, attenuation of the oxidative stress response and inhibition of apoptosis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['rat model of 70% warm hepatic I/R injury', 'suppressing the inflammatory response'], 'process': ['hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (', 'ultracentrifugation and ultrafiltration', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay', 'ELISA', 'inflammatory infiltration', 'Apoptosis', 'terminal-deoxynucleoitidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling', 'TUNEL', 'Hepatocyte necrosis', 'sinusoidal congestion', 'hepatocyte injury markers', 'tumor necrosis factor', 'interleukin', 'superoxide dismutase', 'anti-apoptotic, anti-oxidative stress response role', 'alleviate hepatic I/R injury', 'suppression of inflammatory responses', 'attenuation of the oxidative stress response', 'inhibition of apoptosis'], 'material': ['exosomes', 'human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived mesenchymal stromal cells', 'hiPSC-MSCs-Exo', 'Exosomes', 'hiPSC-MSCs-Exo', 'inferior vena cava', 'serum levels of transaminases', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'an automatic analyzer', 'expression of inflammatory factors', 'hepatic cells', 'liver tissue', 'apoptotic markers', 'hiPSCs', 'hiPSC-MSCs', 'hiPSC-MSCs-Exo', 'exosomal markers', 'CD9', 'hiPSC-MSCs-Exo', 'AST', 'ALT', 'Inflammatory markers', 'high mobility group box', 'HMGB1', 'hiPSC-MSCs-Exo', 'exosomes', 'liver tissues', 'apoptotic markers', 'bax', 'oxidative markers', 'glutathione', 'GSH', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'GSH', 'Px', 'SOD', 'hiPSC-MSCs-Exo', 'hiPSC-MSCs-Exo']}], 'authors': 'Kumari, Archana; Kakkar, Poonam', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'L,L-diaminopimelate aminotransferase, a trans-kingdom enzyme shared by Chlamydia and plants for synthesis of diaminopimelate/lysine'}, {'document': ['A review.  Optically active amines and amino acids play an important role in the pharmaceutical, agrochem., and chem. industries.  They are frequently used as synthons for the prepn. of various pharmaceutically active substances and agrochems., but also as resolving agents to obtain chiral carboxylic acids.  Consequently, there is a need for efficient methods to obtain the desired enantiomer of a given target structure in optically pure form.  Beside a range of chem. methods using for example, asym. synthesis with transition metal catalysts, enzymes represent a useful alternative to access this important class of compds.  This review covers biocatalytic approaches using hydrolases (i.e. lipases, amidases), monoamine oxidase and other enzymes.  Special focus is given on the application of ω-transaminases with emphasis on concepts to allow efficient asym. synthesis starting from prostereogenic ketones.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['obtain chiral carboxylic acids', 'obtain the desired enantiomer'], 'process': ['chem. methods', 'asym. synthesis', 'biocatalytic approaches'], 'material': ['Optically active amines', 'amino acids', 'synthons', 'pharmaceutically active substances', 'resolving agents', 'transition metal catalysts', 'enzymes', 'hydrolases', 'lipases', 'amidases', 'monoamine oxidase', 'enzymes', 'ω-transaminases', 'prostereogenic ketones']}], 'authors': 'Williams Emma L; Acquaviva Cecile; Amoroso Antonio; Chevalier Francoise; Coulter-Mackie Marion; Monico Carla G; Giachino Daniela; Owen Tricia; Robbiano Angela; Salido Eduardo; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Science ', 'title': 'Turnover of rat liver tyrosine transaminase: stabilization after inhibition of protein synthesis'}, {'document': ['Microbial catabolism of amino acids produces flavour compounds of importance for foods such as cheese, wine and fermented sausages.  Lactic acid bacteria are equipped with enzyme systems for using the amino acids in their metabolism and are useful for flavour formation of foods.  Branched-chain amino acids (Leu, Ile, Val) are converted into compounds contributing to malty, fruity and sweaty flavours; catabolism of aromatic amino acids (Phe, Tyr, Trp) produce floral, chemical and faecal flavours; aspartic acid (Asp) is catabolised into buttery flavours and sulphuric amino acids (Met, Cys) are transferred into compounds contributing to boiled cabbage, meaty and garlic flavours.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['flavour formation'], 'process': ['Microbial catabolism of amino acids', 'enzyme systems', 'catabolism of aromatic amino acids'], 'material': ['flavour compounds', 'foods', 'cheese', 'wine', 'fermented sausages', 'Lactic acid bacteria', 'amino acids', 'Branched-chain amino acids', 'Leu', 'Ile', 'Val', 'compounds', 'malty, fruity and sweaty flavours', 'Phe', 'Tyr', 'Trp', 'floral, chemical and faecal flavours', 'aspartic acid', 'Asp', 'buttery flavours', 'sulphuric amino acids', 'Met', 'Cys', 'compounds', 'boiled cabbage', 'meaty and garlic flavours']}], 'authors': 'Torbenson Michael; Chen Yunn-Yi; Brunt Elizabeth; Cummings Oscar W; Gottfried Marcia; Jakate Shriram; Liu Yao-Chang; Yeh Matthew M; Ferrell Linda', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.lfs.2012.01.012', 'journal': 'Life Sciences ', 'title': 'Lupeol prevents acetaminophen-induced in vivo hepatotoxicity by altering the Bax/Bcl-2 and oxidative stress-mediated mitochondrial signaling cascade'}, {'document': ["BACKGROUND:  Pyridoxine (VB6) response in type I primary hyperoxaluria (PHI) is variable, with nearly equal numbers of patients showing partial to complete reductions in oxaluria, and resistance.  Because high urine oxalate concentrations cause stones and renal injury, reduction in urine oxalate excretion is deemed favorable.  Mechanisms of VB6 action on hepatic alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT), the deficient enzyme in PHI, and VB6 dose response have not been well-characterized.  METHODS:  Sequencing or restriction site-generating polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used for c.508 genotyping in 23 PHI patients.  Pre- and post-VB6 24-hour urine oxalate excretion and VB6 dose were ascertained by retrospective chart review.  RESULTS:  There were six c.508 G>A homozygotes (AA), eight heterozygotes (GA), and nine patients lacking this change (GG).  Pre-VB6 urine oxalate excretion was 152 +/- 39, 203 +/- 68 and 206 +/- 74 mg/1.73 m(2)/24 hours, respectively, and did not differ [AA vs.  GA (P= 0.07); AA vs.  GG (P= 0.07); GA vs.  GG, (P= 0.47)].  Post-VB6 urine oxalate excretion was normal in AA (pre- vs. post-VB6) (P < 0.001), partially reduced in GA (P < 0.001), and unchanged in GG (P= 0.06).  Urine oxalate excretion attenuation was similar for VB6 doses (mg/kg/day) of 1 to 4.9, 5 to 9.9, and 10 to 14.9 in AA (P= 0.41, P= 0.28, and P= 0.11, respectively) and GA (P= 0.42, P= 0.39, and P= 0.30, respectively) during follow-up.  CONCLUSION:  Presence of the c.508 G>A allele confers VB6 response in PHI and VB6 doses of 5 mg/kg/day appear sufficient. c.508 genotyping can be used to predict VB6 response and guide treatment in PHI. [c represents cDNA sequence where nucleotide position +1 corresponds to the adenine (A) of the translation start codon ATG.  Equivalent positions based on 5' UTR nucleotide numbering are as follows: c.508 G>A = G630A (Gly170Arg), c.32 C>T = C154T (Pro11Leu), and c.454 T>A = T576A (Phe152Ile)], yields highest residual AGT activity.  To test whether VB6 response might be attributable to this allele, we performed c.508 genotyping."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Mechanisms of VB6 action', 'c.508 genotyping', 'VB6 dose', 'test whether VB6 response', 'c.508 genotyping'], 'process': ['PHI', 'reduction in urine oxalate excretion', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'deficient enzyme', 'VB6 dose response', 'Sequencing', 'restriction site-generating polymerase chain reaction', 'PCR', 'retrospective chart review', 'urine oxalate excretion', 'urine oxalate', 'Urine oxalate excretion', 'VB6 doses', 'VB6 response', 'c.508 genotyping', 'VB6 response', 'AGT activity'], 'material': ['Pyridoxine', 'VB6', 'oxaluria', 'high urine oxalate', 'stones', 'PHI', 'AA', 'GA', 'GG', 'AA', 'GA', 'AA', 'GG', 'GA', 'GG', 'AA', 'GA', 'GG', 'AA', 'GA', 'c.508 G>A allele', 'PHI', 'VB6', 'PHI', 'cDNA sequence', "5' UTR"]}], 'authors': 'El-Beshbishy, Hesham A.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Human mutation ', 'title': 'Primary hyperoxaluria type 1: update and additional mutation analysis of the AGXT gene'}, {'document': ['Downy mildew caused by the oomycete pathogen Pseudoperonospora cubensis is a devastating foliar disease of cucurbits worldwide.  We previously demonstrated that the wild melon line PI 124111F (PI) is highly resistant to all pathotypes of P. cubensis.  That resistance was controlled genetically by two partially dominant, complementary loci.  Here, we show that unlike other plant disease resistance genes, which confer an ability to resist infection by pathogens expressing corresponding avirulence genes, the resistance of PI to P. cubensis is controlled by enhanced expression of the enzymatic resistance (eR) genes At1 and At2.  These constitutively expressed genes encode the photorespiratory peroxisomal enzyme proteins glyoxylate aminotransferases.  The low expression of At1 and At2 in susceptible melon lines is regulated mainly at the transcriptional level.  This regulation is independent of infection with the pathogen.  Transgenic melon plants overexpressing either of these eR genes displayed enhanced activity of glyoxylate aminotransferases and remarkable resistance against P. cubensis.  The cloned eR genes provide a new resource for developing downy mildew-resistant melon varieties.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['developing downy mildew-resistant melon varieties'], 'process': ['plant disease resistance genes', 'resist infection', 'resistance', 'enhanced expression of the', 'enzymatic resistance', 'eR', 'constitutively expressed genes', 'glyoxylate aminotransferases', 'low expression', 'infection', 'overexpressing either of these', 'eR genes', 'eR genes'], 'material': ['Downy mildew', 'oomycete pathogen', 'wild melon line', 'PI 124111F', 'PI', 'P. cubensis', 'two partially dominant, complementary loci', 'PI', 'P. cubensis', 'photorespiratory peroxisomal enzyme proteins', 'susceptible melon lines', 'Transgenic melon plants', 'glyoxylate aminotransferases']}], 'authors': 'Resnick Adam C; Snowman Adele M; Kang Bingnan N; Hurt K Joseph; Snyder Solomon H; Saiardi Adolfo', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The American journal of surgical pathology ', 'title': 'Glycogenic hepatopathy: an underrecognized hepatic complication of diabetes mellitus'}, {'document': ['The consumption of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy) is known to cause severe hyperthermia and liver damage in humans.  The thermogenic response induced by MDMA is complex and partially detd. by the prevailing ambient temp. (AT).  This is of extreme importance since ecstasy is often consumed at "rave" parties, where dancing takes place in a warm environment, which may exacerbate the effect of MDMA on thermoregulation.  In view of the fact that hyperthermia is a well-known prooxidant aggressive condition, its potential role in ecstasy-induced hepatocellular toxicity should be further studied.  Thus, the present study was performed in order to evaluate the influence of AT on the effects of single administration of MDMA on body temp. and liver toxicity in Charles River mice.  Animals were given an acute i.p. dose of MDMA (5, 10 or 20 mg/kg) and placed in AT of 20±2° or 30±2° for 24 h.  Body temp. was measured during the study using implanted transponders and a temp. probe reading device.  Plasma and liver samples were used for biochem. anal.  Liver sections were also taken for histol. examn.  The parameters evaluated were (1) plasma levels of transaminases and alk. phosphatase, (2) hepatic glutathione (GSH), (3) hepatic lipid peroxidn., (4) activity of hepatic antioxidant enzymes (catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glutathione-S-transferase, copper/zinc superoxide dismutase and manganese superoxide dismutase), and (5) liver histol.  The hyperthermic response elicited by MDMA was clearly dose-related and potentiated by high AT.  Administration of MDMA produced some evidence of oxidative stress, expressed as GSH depletion at both ATs studied, as well as by lipid peroxidn. and decreased catalase activity at high AT.  High AT, by itself, decreased glutathione peroxidase activity.  Histol. examn. of the liver revealed abnormalities of a dose- and AT-dependent nature.  These changes included vacuolation of the hepatocytes, presence of blood clots and loss of typical hepatic cord organization.  The results obtained in the present study suggest that oxidative stress plays a part in the first stage of MDMA-induced liver damage and that liver antioxidant status is aggravated by increased AT.  Thus, these findings are in accordance with the hypothesis that high AT may potentiate ecstasy-induced hepatotoxicity by increasing body hyperthermia.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['potential role in', 'induced hepatocellular toxicity', 'biochem. anal.  Liver sections', 'histol. examn', 'induced liver damage'], 'process': ['liver damage', 'thermogenic response', 'hyperthermia', 'single administration', 'hepatic lipid peroxidn', 'activity of hepatic antioxidant enzymes', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'hyperthermic response', 'high AT', 'oxidative stress', 'GSH depletion', 'lipid peroxidn', 'decreased catalase activity', 'High AT', 'decreased glutathione peroxidase activity', 'Histol. examn. of the liver', 'vacuolation of the', 'hepatic cord organization', 'oxidative stress', 'liver antioxidant status', 'increased AT', 'increasing body hyperthermia'], 'material': ['3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine', 'MDMA', 'ecstasy', 'MDMA', 'ecstasy', '"rave" parties', 'dancing', 'MDMA', 'ecstasy', 'AT', 'MDMA', 'Charles River mice', 'acute i.p. dose', 'MDMA', 'Body temp.', 'implanted transponders', 'temp. probe reading device', 'Plasma and liver samples', 'plasma levels of transaminases', 'hepatic glutathione', 'GSH', 'catalase', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'glutathione reductase', 'copper/zinc superoxide dismutase', 'manganese superoxide dismutase', 'liver histol', 'MDMA', 'MDMA', 'hepatocytes', 'blood clots', 'MDMA', 'high AT']}], 'authors': 'Liepman A H; Olsen L J', 'DOI': '10.5483/BMBRep.2005.38.3.300', 'journal': 'Journal of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology ', 'title': 'The effect of dimethyl dimethoxy biphenyl dicarboxylate (DDB) against tamoxifen-induced liver injury in rats: DDB use is curative or protective'}, {'document': ["Many studies indicate that oxygen free-radical formation after reoxygenation of liver may initiate the cascade of hepatocellular injury.  It has been demonstrated that controlled ozone administration may promote an oxidative preconditioning or adaptation to oxidative stress, preventing the damage induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and protecting against liver ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury.  On the basis of those results we postulated that ozone treatment in our exptl. conditions has biochem. parameters similar to the ischemic preconditioning (IscheP) mechanism.  Four groups of rats were classified as follows: (1) sham-operated animals subjected to anesthesia and laparotomy, plus surgical manipulation; (2) I/R animals were subjected to 90 min of right-lobe hepatic ischemia, followed by 90 min of reperfusion; (3) IscheP, previous to the I/R period (as in group 2): animals were subjected to 10 min of ischemia and 10 min of reperfusion; (4) ozone oxidative preconditioning (OzoneOP), previous to the I/R period (as in group 2): animals were treated with ozone by rectal insufflation 1 mg kg -1.  The rats received 15 ozone treatments, one per day, of 5-5.5 mL at the ozone concn. of 50 μg mL-1.  The following parameters were measured: serum transaminases (AST, ALT) and 5 '-nucleotidase (5 '-NT), with morphol. detns., as indicators or hepatocellular injury; total sulfhydryl groups, calcium levels and calpain activity as mediators which take part in xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH) conversion to xanthine oxidase (XO) (reversible and irreversible forms, resp.); XO activities and malondialdehyde + 4-hydroyalkenals as indicators of increased oxidative stress.  AST, ALT levels were attenuated in the IscheP (130±11.4 and 75±5.7 U L-1) with regard to the I/R group (200±22 and 117±21.7 U L-1) while the OzoneOP maintained both of the enzyme activities (89.5±12.6 and 43.7±10 U L-1) without statistical differences (P< 0.05) in comparison with the sham-operated (63.95±11 and 19.48±3.2 U L-1).  Protective effects of both the preconditioning settings on the preservation of total sulfhydryl groups (IscheP: 6.28±0.07, OzoneOP: 6.34±0.07 μmol mg prot-1), calcium concns. (IscheP: 0.18±0.09, OzoneOP: 0.20±0.06 μmol mg prot-1), and calpain activity (IscheP: 1.04±0.58, OzoneOP: 1.41±0.79 U mg prot-1) were obsd.  Both of the preconditionings attenuated the increase of total XO assocd. to I/R injury.  Generation of malondialdehyde + 4 hydroxyalkenals was prevented by IscheP and OzoneOP without statistical differences between the two protective procedures.  These results provide evidence that both of the preconditioning settings share similar biochem. mechanisms of protection in the parameters which were measured.  Although there were no differences from a biochem. point of view between Ischemic and OzoneOPs, the histol. results showed a more effective protection of OzoneOP than IscheP in our exptl. conditions."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['preventing the damage', 'protecting against liver ischemia-reperfusion (', 'I/R animals', 'increased oxidative stress', 'biochem. mechanisms of protection', 'exptl. conditions'], 'process': ['oxygen free-radical formation', 'hepatocellular injury', 'controlled ozone administration', 'oxidative preconditioning', 'adaptation', 'oxidative stress', 'ozone treatment', 'biochem. parameters', 'ischemic preconditioning', 'IscheP', 'surgical manipulation', 'right-lobe hepatic ischemia', 'reperfusion', 'IscheP', 'ischemia', 'reperfusion', 'ozone oxidative preconditioning', 'OzoneOP', 'rectal insufflation', 'hepatocellular injury', 'calpain activity', 'xanthine dehydrogenase', 'XDH', 'IscheP', 'preconditioning', 'IscheP', 'OzoneOP', 'IscheP', 'calpain activity', 'IscheP', 'preconditionings', 'attenuated the increase of total XO', 'I/R injury', 'IscheP', 'OzoneOP', 'preconditioning'], 'material': ['reactive oxygen species', 'ROS', 'sham-operated animals', 'ozone', 'ozone concn', 'serum transaminases', 'AST', 'ALT', "5 '-nucleotidase", "5 '-NT)", 'morphol. detns', 'total sulfhydryl groups', 'xanthine oxidase', 'XO', 'reversible and irreversible forms', 'XO', 'malondialdehyde + 4-hydroyalkenals', 'AST', 'ALT', 'I/R', 'OzoneOP', 'enzyme', 'sham-operated', 'calcium concns', 'OzoneOP', 'OzoneOP', 'malondialdehyde', '4 hydroxyalkenals', 'OzoneOPs', 'histol', 'OzoneOP', 'IscheP']}], 'authors': 'Knox, W. Eugene; Greengard, Olga', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Inositol polyphosphate multikinase is a nuclear PI3-kinase with transcriptional regulatory activity'}, {'document': ['The ARO8 and ARO9 genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were isolated by complementation of the phenylalanine/tyrosine auxotrophy of an aro8 and aro9 double-mutant strain that is defective in aromatic aminotransferase I (aro8) and II (aro9).  The genes were sequenced, and deletion mutants were constructed and analysed.  The expression of ARO8 and ARO9 was studied.  The deduced amino acid sequences of Aro8p and Aro9p suggest that the former is a 500-residue, 56168-Da polypeptide and the latter a 513-residue, 58516-Da polypeptide.  They correspond, respectively, to Ygl202p and Yhr137p, two putative proteins of unknown function revealed by systematic sequencing of the yeast genome.  We show that aromatic aminotransferases I and II are homologous proteins, members of aminotransferase subgroup I, and, together with three other proteins, they constitute within the subgroup a new subfamily of enzymes specialised for aromatic amino acid and alpha-aminoadipate transamination.  ARO8 expression is subject to the general control of amino acid biosynthesis.  ARO9 expression is induced when aromatic amino acids are present in the growth medium and also in aro8 mutants grown on minimal ammonia medium.  An autonomously replicating sequence (ARS) element is located between the ARO8 gene and YGL201c which encodes a protein of the minichromosome maintenance family.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['aromatic amino acid and alpha-aminoadipate transamination'], 'process': ['complementation of the', 'phenylalanine/tyrosine auxotrophy', 'systematic sequencing', 'aminotransferase subgroup', 'amino acid biosynthesis', 'autonomously replicating sequence', 'ARS'], 'material': ['ARO8 and ARO9 genes', 'aro8 and aro9 double-mutant strain', 'aromatic aminotransferase', 'aro8', 'aro9', 'deletion mutants', 'ARO8', 'ARO9', 'deduced amino acid sequences', 'Aro8p', 'Aro9p', '500-residue, 56168-Da polypeptide', '513-residue, 58516-Da polypeptide', 'Ygl202p', 'Yhr137p', 'yeast genome', 'aromatic aminotransferases', 'proteins', 'ARO8', 'ARO9', 'aromatic amino acids', 'growth medium', 'aro8', 'minimal ammonia medium', 'ARO8', 'YGL201c', 'protein of the minichromosome maintenance family']}], 'authors': 'Varghese George M; Trowbridge Paul; Janardhanan Jeshina; Thomas Kurien; Abraham Ooriapadickal C; Peter John V; Mathews Prasad; Kavitha M L', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Plant journal : for cell and molecular biology ', 'title': 'Peroxisomal alanine : glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT1) is a photorespiratory enzyme with multiple substrates in Arabidopsis thaliana'}, {'document': ['In E. coli, p-aminobenzoate (PABA) is synthesized from chorismate and glutamine in two steps.  Aminodeoxychorismate synthase components I and II, encoded by pabB and pabA, resp., convert chorismate and glutamine to 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate (ADC) and glutamate, resp.  ADC lyase, encoded by pabC, converts ADC to PABA and pyruvate.  It was reported that pabC had been cloned and mapped to 25 min on the E. coli chromosome (Green, J.M; Nichols, B.P. 1991).  Here the nucleotide sequence of pabC is reported, including a portion of a sequence of a downstream open reading frame that may be cotranscribed with pabC.  A disruption of pabC was constructed and transferred to the chromosome, and the pabC mutant strain required PABA for growth.  The deduced amino acid sequences of ADC lyase is similar to those of Bacillus subtilis PabZC and a no. of amino acid transaminases.  Aminodeoxychorismate lyase purified from a strain harboring an overproducing plasmid was shown to contain pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor.  This finding explains the similarity to the transaminases, which also contain pyridoxal phosphate.  Expression studies revealed the size of the pabC gene product to be ∼30 kDa, in agreement with that predicted by the nucleotide sequence data and approx. half the native mol. mass, suggesting that the native enzyme is dimeric.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['transaminases'], 'process': ['Aminodeoxychorismate synthase components', 'ADC lyase', 'Expression studies'], 'material': ['p-aminobenzoate', 'PABA', 'chorismate', 'pabB', 'pabA', 'chorismate', '4-amino-4-deoxychorismate', 'ADC', 'glutamate', 'pabC', 'ADC', 'PABA', 'pyruvate', 'pabC', 'pabC', 'pabC.', 'pabC', 'pabC mutant strain', 'PABA', 'ADC lyase', 'Bacillus subtilis', 'PabZC', 'amino acid transaminases', 'Aminodeoxychorismate lyase', 'overproducing plasmid', 'pyridoxal phosphate', 'pyridoxal phosphate', 'pabC', 'nucleotide sequence data']}], 'authors': 'Wu Jer-Yuarn; Kao Hsiao-Jung; Li Sing-Chung; Stevens Robert; Hillman Steven; Millington David; Chen Yuan-Tsong', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Advan. Enzyme Regulation ', 'title': 'The regulation of some enzymes of nitrogen metabolism; an introduction to enzyme physiology'}, {'document': ['Ramakrishnan, T. (Yale University, New Haven, Conn.), and Edward A.  Adelberg.  Regulatory mechanisms in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine.  III.  Map order of the structural genes and operator genes.  J.  Bacteriol. 89:661-664. 1965.-A new method has been employed to determine the map order of the structural genes and operator genes governing the enzymes of the isoleucine-valine biosynthetic pathway.  This method relies on the observation that phage transduction of markers carried on an F-genote leads to the establishment in the recipient of F-genotes of various lengths.  Using this method, we have established that the order of loci is the following: F/ilvE ilvD ilvA oprA/ilvC/ilvB oprB.  The operator locus, oprA, regulates the activity of structural genes ilvE (transaminase B), ilvD (dehydrase), and ilvA (threonine deaminase).  The operator locus, oprB, regulates the activity of ilvB (condensing enzyme).  An operator for ilvC (reductoisomerase) can be inferred to exist, but has not yet been detected genetically.  The loci ilvB and oprB have been shown to be at the extreme right end of the sequence, but their positions relative to each other remain to be established.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Map order', 'map order of the'], 'process': ['Regulatory mechanisms', 'phage transduction', 'operator locus', 'threonine deaminase', 'oprB'], 'material': ['structural genes', 'structural genes', 'operator genes', 'F-genote', 'F-genotes', 'F/ilvE', 'ilvD', 'ilvC', 'oprA', 'structural genes', 'ilvE', 'transaminase B', 'ilvD', 'dehydrase', 'ilvA', 'ilvB', 'condensing enzyme', 'ilvC', 'reductoisomerase', 'ilvB', 'oprB']}], 'authors': 'Poon Liona C; Shennan Andrew; von Dadelszen Peter; Hyett Jonathan A; Kapur Anil; Hadar Eran; Hod Moshe; Divakar Hema; McAuliffe Fionnuala; da Silva Costa Fabricio; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'International journal of infectious diseases : IJID : official publication of the International Society for Infectious Diseases ', 'title': 'Clinical profile and improving mortality trend of scrub typhus in South India'}, {'document': ['This work was undertaken to investigate whether treatment with melatonin prevents oxidative stress and changes in the expression and activity of factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-mediated antioxidant enzymes in an animal model of fulminant hepatic failure of viral origin.  Rabbits were exptl. infected with 2 × 104 hemagglutination units of a rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) isolate and received melatonin at two concns. of 10 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg at 0, 12 and 24 h postinfection.  Blood transaminases, blood lactate dehydrogenase, liver concn. of thiobarbituric reactive acid substances and the liver oxidized to reduced glutathione ratio significantly increased at 36 h postinfection in infected animals.  Significant decreases were found in the mRNA levels and in the liver activities of Mn-superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase in infected rabbits.  These effects were prevented by melatonin administration in a concn.-dependent manner.  Melatonin treatment was not accompanied by changes in protein levels of Kelch-like ECH-assocg. protein 1 (Keap1) but resulted in an increased protein expression of Nrf2 in the cytoplasm and the nucleus, which was confirmed by the results of Nrf2 immunostaining.  Nuclear exts. from livers of melatonin-treated rats displayed an enhanced antioxidant responsive element (ARE)-binding activity of Nrf2.  Our results suggest a potential hepatoprotective role of melatonin in fulminant hepatic failure, partially mediated through the abrogation of oxidative stress and the prevention of the decreased activity of antioxidant enzymes via the Nrf2 pathways.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['investigate whether treatment with melatonin', 'changes in the expression and activity of factor erythroid 2-related factor', 'animal model of fulminant hepatic failure', 'hepatoprotective role'], 'process': ['prevents oxidative stress', 'liver oxidized to reduced glutathione ratio', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'melatonin administration', 'Melatonin treatment', 'Nrf2 immunostaining', 'abrogation of oxidative stress', 'prevention of the decreased activity of antioxidant enzymes', 'Nrf2 pathways'], 'material': ['Rabbits', 'rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus', 'RHDV', 'melatonin', 'Blood transaminases', 'blood lactate dehydrogenase', 'liver concn.', 'thiobarbituric reactive acid substances', 'Mn-superoxide dismutase', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'Kelch-like ECH-assocg. protein', 'Keap1', 'Nrf2', 'Nuclear exts', 'melatonin-treated rats', 'Nrf2', 'melatonin']}], 'authors': 'Contente, Martina L.; Paradisi, Francesca', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of clinical investigation ', 'title': 'ENU mutagenesis identifies mice with mitochondrial branched-chain aminotransferase deficiency resembling human maple syrup urine disease'}, {'document': ["It has been postulated that endogenous kynurenic acid (KYNA) modulates alpha7* nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) and NMDA receptor activities in the brain.a To test this hypothesis, alpha7* nAChR and NMDA receptor functions were studied in mice with a targeted null mutation in the gene encoding kynurenine aminotransferase II (mKat-2-/- mice), an enzyme responsible for brain KYNA synthesis.  At 21 postnatal days, mKat-2-/- mice had lower hippocampal KYNA levels and higher spontaneous locomotor activity than wild-type (WT) mice.  At this age, alpha7* nAChR activity induced by exogenous application of agonists to CA1 stratum radiatum interneurons was approximately 65% higher in mKat-2-/- than WT mice.  Binding studies indicated that the enhanced receptor activity may not have resulted from an increase in alpha7* nAChR number.  In 21-d-old mKat-2-/- mice, endogenous alpha7* nAChR activity in the hippocampus was also increased, leading to an enhancement of GABAergic activity impinging onto CA1 pyramidal neurons that could be reduced significantly by acute exposure to KYNA (100 nM).  The activities of GABA(A) and NMDA receptors in the interneurons and of alpha3beta4* nAChRs regulating glutamate release onto these neurons were comparable between mKat-2-/- and WT mice.  By 60 d of age, KYNA levels and GABAergic transmission in the hippocampus and locomotor activity were similar between mKat-2-/- and WT mice.  Our findings that alpha7* nAChRs are major targets for KYNA in the brain may provide insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease, disorders in which brain KYNA levels are increased and alpha7* nAChR functions are impaired."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enhanced receptor activity', 'pathophysiology of schizophrenia'], 'process': ['nAChR', 'targeted null mutation', 'brain KYNA synthesis', 'exogenous application of agonists', 'Binding studies', 'enhancement of GABAergic activity', 'acute exposure', 'GABAergic transmission', 'Alzheimer'], 'material': ['endogenous kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'alpha7* nicotinic acetylcholine receptor', 'alpha7* nAChR', 'lower hippocampal KYNA', 'alpha7* nAChR', 'CA1 stratum radiatum interneurons', 'alpha7* nAChR', 'alpha7* nAChR activity', 'CA1 pyramidal neurons', 'KYNA', 'GABA(A) and NMDA receptors', 'interneurons', 'alpha3beta4* nAChRs', 'KYNA', 'WT mice', 'alpha7* nAChRs', 'KYNA', 'alpha7* nAChR']}], 'authors': 'Nong Kate; Ma Chenchao; Wu Bo; Wang Weiwei; Niu Xin; Hu Bin; Bai Yueqing; Wang Yang; Ai Kaixing', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'International journal of gynaecology and obstetrics: the official organ of the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics ', 'title': 'The International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) initiative on pre-eclampsia: A pragmatic guide for first-trimester screening and prevention'}, {'document': ["Two classes of enzymatic mechanisms that proceed by free radical chemistry initiated by the 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical are discussed.  In the first class, the mechanism of the interconversion of L-lysine and L-beta-lysine catalyzed by lysine 2,3-aminomutase (LAM) involves four radicals, three of which have been spectroscopically characterized.  The reversible formation of the 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical takes place by the chemical cleavage of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) reacting with the [4Fe-4S]+ center in LAM.  In other reactions of SAM with iron-sulfur proteins, SAM is irreversibly consumed to generate the 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical, which activates an enzyme by abstracting a hydrogen atom from an enzymatic glycyl residue to form a glycyl radical.  The glycyl radical enzymes include pyruvate formate-lyase, anaerobic ribonucleotide reductase from Escherichia coli, and benzylsuccinate synthase.  Biotin synthase and lipoate synthase are SAM-dependent [4Fe-4S] proteins that catalyze the insertion of sulfur into unactivated C-H bonds, which are cleaved by the 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical from SAM.  In the second class of enzymatic mechanisms using free radicals, adenosylcobalamin-dependent reactions, the 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical arises from homolytic cleavage of the cobalt-carbon bond, and it initiates radical reactions by abstracting hydrogen atoms from substrates.  Three examples are described of suicide inactivation through the formation of exceptionally stable free radicals at enzymatic active sites."], 'annotation': [{'task': ["reversible formation of the 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical", 'second class of enzymatic mechanisms'], 'process': ['enzymatic mechanisms', 'free radical chemistry', 'chemical cleavage', 'abstracting a hydrogen atom', 'free radicals', 'adenosylcobalamin-dependent reactions', 'homolytic cleavage of the cobalt-carbon bond', 'radical reactions', 'suicide inactivation'], 'material': ["5'-deoxyadenosyl radical", 'L-lysine', 'L-beta-lysine', 'lysine 2,3-aminomutase', 'LAM', 'four radicals', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'SAM', '[4Fe-4S]+ center', 'LAM', 'SAM', 'iron-sulfur proteins', 'SAM', "5'-deoxyadenosyl radical", 'enzymatic glycyl residue', 'glycyl radical', 'glycyl radical enzymes', 'pyruvate formate-lyase', 'anaerobic ribonucleotide reductase', 'benzylsuccinate synthase', 'Biotin synthase', 'lipoate', 'synthase', 'SAM-dependent [4Fe-4S] proteins', 'sulfur', 'unactivated C-H bonds', "5'-deoxyadenosyl radical", 'SAM', "5'-deoxyadenosyl radical", 'hydrogen atoms', 'free radicals']}], 'authors': 'Hoehne, Matthias; Bornscheuer, Uwe T.', 'DOI': '10.1038/s41929-018-0082-9', 'journal': 'Nature Catalysis ', 'title': 'Self-sustaining closed-loop multienzyme-mediated conversion of amines into alcohols in continuous reactions'}, {'document': ['Brucella organisms are facultative intracellular bacteria that may infect many species of animals as well as humans.  The smooth lipopolysaccharide (S-LPS) has been reported to be an important virulence factor of these organisms, but the genetic basis of expression of the S-LPS O antigen has not yet been described.  Likewise, the role of the O side chain of S-LPS in the survival of Brucella has not been clearly defined.  A mini-Tn5 transposon mutant library of Brucella melitensis 16M was screened by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) directed against the O side chain of Brucella.  One mutant, designated B3B2, failed to express any O side chain as confirmed by ELISA, Western blot analysis, and colony coloration with crystal violet.  Nucleotide sequence analysis demonstrated that the transposon disrupted an open reading frame with significant homology to the putative perosamine synthetase genes of Vibrio cholerae O1 and Escherichia coli O157:H7.  The low G+C content of this DNA region suggests that this gene may have originated from a species other than a Brucella sp.  The survival of B. melitensis mutant strain B3B2 in the mouse model and in bovine macrophages was examined.  The results suggested that S-LPS or, more precisely, its O side chain is essential for survival in mice but not in macrophages.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['infect many species of animals as well as humans', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay', 'ELISA', 'ELISA', 'Western blot analysis', 'colony coloration with crystal violet', 'Nucleotide sequence analysis', 'perosamine synthetase genes', 'mouse model'], 'material': ['Brucella organisms', 'facultative intracellular bacteria', 'smooth lipopolysaccharide', 'S-LPS', 'S-LPS O antigen', 'O side', 'S-LPS', 'mini-Tn5 transposon mutant library', 'Brucella melitensis', 'monoclonal antibodies', 'MAbs', 'O side chain', 'B3B2', 'O side chain', 'transposon', 'Vibrio cholerae', 'Escherichia coli', 'Brucella', 'B. melitensis mutant strain', 'bovine macrophages', 'S-LPS', 'O side chain', 'macrophages']}], 'authors': 'Ardo Ylva', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cytotherapy ', 'title': 'Hepatoprotective effect of exosomes from human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived mesenchymal stromal cells against hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats'}, {'document': ['Several pieces of evidence suggest a major role for brain macrophages in the overproduction of neuroactive kynurenines, including quinolinic acid, in brain inflammatory conditions.  In the present work, the regulation of kynurenine pathway enzymes by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was studied in immortalized murine macrophages (MT2) and microglial (N11) cells.  In both cell lines, IFN-gamma induced the expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) activity.  Whereas tumor necrosis factor-alpha did not affect enzyme induction by IFN-gamma, lipopolysaccharide modulated IDO activity differently in the two IFN-gamma-activated cell lines, causing a reduction of IDO expression in MT2 cells and an enhancement of IDO activity in N11 cells.  Kynurenine aminotransferase, kynurenine 3-hydroxylase, and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid dioxygenase appeared to be constitutively expressed in both cell lines.  Kynurenine 3-hydroxylase activity was stimulated by IFN-gamma.  It was notable that basal kynureninase activity was much higher in MT2 macrophages than in N11 microglial cells.  In addition, IFN-gamma markedly stimulated the activity of this enzyme only in MT2 cells.  IFN-gamma-treated MT2 cells, but not N11 cells, were able to produce detectable amounts of radiolabeled 3-hydroxyanthranilic and quinolinic acids from L-[5-3H] tryptophan.  These results support the notion that activated invading macrophages may constitute one of the major sources of cerebral quinolinic acid during inflammation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['overproduction of neuroactive kynurenines', 'regulation of kynurenine pathway enzymes', 'IFN', 'indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase', 'IDO', 'tumor necrosis factor', 'IDO', 'IDO'], 'material': ['brain macrophages', 'quinolinic', 'immortalized murine macrophages', 'MT2', 'microglial (N11) cells', 'IFN', 'lipopolysaccharide', 'IFN-gamma-activated cell', 'IDO', 'MT2 cells', 'N11 cells', 'Kynurenine', 'kynurenine', '3-hydroxyanthranilic acid dioxygenase', 'Kynurenine 3-hydroxylase activity', 'kynureninase', 'MT2 macrophages', 'N11 microglial cells', 'IFN', 'MT2 cells', 'IFN-gamma-treated MT2 cells', 'N11 cells', 'radiolabeled 3-hydroxyanthranilic and quinolinic acids', 'L-[5-3H] tryptophan', 'activated invading macrophages', 'cerebral quinolinic acid']}], 'authors': 'Monico Carla G; Rossetti Sandro; Olson Julie B; Milliner Dawn S', 'DOI': '10.1002/cctc.200900110', 'journal': 'ChemCatChem ', 'title': 'Biocatalytic routes to optically active amines'}, {'document': ['To date, no attempt has been made to study alterations occurring in the amino acid profile in chronic models of thioacetamide-induced liver cirrhosis.  In this work, changes in serum amino acids and proteins in rats with thioacetamide-induced liver cirrhosis are reported, together with changes in enzyme activities in the liver and serum.  Seventeen female Wistar rats were used.  Eight rats were given 300 mg thioacetamide/l in drinking water for 4 mo and nine rats were given water ad libitum during the same time-period.  Significant increases in glycine, alanine, serine, methionine, glutamate, ornithine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, histidine and proline were obsd. in rats with the resulting exptl. liver cirrhosis.  Threonine, taurine, glutamine, lysine and citrulline tended to increase while isoleucine, leucine, aspartate, arginine and tryptophan tended to decrease.  Total and nonessential amino acids increased significantly in cirrhotic animals.  Total essential and arom. amino acids tended to increase in the thioacetamide- treated group, whereas branched chain amino acids tended to decrease in the same group.  Regarding serum proteins, a decrease in albumin concn. in the thioacetamide-treated animals was the only change detected.  The liver enzyme activities under observation (aspartate and alanine aminotransferases, glutamate dehydrogenase and threonine deaminase) were lower in the thioacetamide group.  Decreases were significant for both transaminases and threonine deaminase.  Results for serum activities showed that transaminases did not change in thioacetamide-treated rats in comparison with controls.  In contrast, alk. phosphatase rose dramatically in cirrhotic rats.  We conclude that the serum amino acid pattern in this chronic model of liver cirrhosis resembles in part that of the corresponding human disease.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['alterations occurring in the amino acid profile', 'exptl. liver cirrhosis', 'human disease'], 'process': ['thioacetamide-induced liver cirrhosis', 'thioacetamide-induced liver cirrhosis', 'changes in enzyme activities', 'decrease in albumin concn', 'threonine deaminase', 'serum activities', 'alk. phosphatase', 'liver cirrhosis'], 'material': ['serum amino acids', 'Wistar rats', 'thioacetamide', 'drinking water', 'water', 'glycine', 'alanine', 'serine', 'methionine', 'glutamate', 'ornithine', 'phenylalanine', 'tyrosine', 'histidine', 'proline', 'Threonine', 'taurine', 'glutamine', 'lysine', 'citrulline', 'isoleucine', 'leucine', 'aspartate', 'arginine', 'tryptophan', 'Total and nonessential amino', 'cirrhotic animals', 'Total essential and arom. amino acids', 'thioacetamide- treated group', 'branched chain amino', 'serum proteins', 'thioacetamide-treated animals', 'liver enzyme activities', 'aspartate and alanine aminotransferases', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'thioacetamide', 'thioacetamide-treated rats', 'cirrhotic rats', 'serum amino', 'chronic model']}], 'authors': 'Taler Dvir; Galperin Marjana; Benjamin Ido; Cohen Yigal; Kenigsbuch David', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Biotechnology advances ', 'title': 'Flavour formation by amino acid catabolism'}, {'document': ['Incubation of rat brain 4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase with 4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid, a substrate analog of 4-aminobutyric acid, results in a time-dependent irreversible loss of enzymatic activity.  In the presence of 0.1 mM inhibitor the half-life of the inactivation process is approximately 6 min.  Low concentrations of L-glutamic acid or 4-aminobutyric acid protect against this inactivation, while 2-oxoglutarate prevents this protection, suggesting that only the pyridoxal form of the enzyme is susceptible to inhibition by 4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid.  The irreversible inhibition of mammalian 4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase by 4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid is selective.  There is no inhibition of this enzyme from Pseudomonas fluorescens with the inhibitor at mM concentrations.  Even at 10 mM there is no irreversible inhibition of mammalian glutamate decarboxylase or of aspartate aminotransferase, while alanine aminotransferase is inhibited over 500 times more slowly than rat brain 4-aminobutyrate transaminase.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['inactivation process', 'inactivation', 'mM concentrations'], 'material': ['rat brain 4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase', '4-amino-hex-5-enoic', 'substrate analog of 4-aminobutyric', 'time-dependent irreversible loss', 'inhibitor', 'Low concentrations', 'L-glutamic', '4-aminobutyric', 'acid', '2-oxoglutarate', 'pyridoxal form', '4-amino-hex-5-enoic', 'mammalian 4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase', '4-amino-hex-5-enoic', 'Pseudomonas fluorescens', 'mammalian glutamate decarboxylase', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'rat brain 4-aminobutyrate transaminase']}], 'authors': 'Carvalho, Marcia; Carvalho, Felix; Remiao, Fernando; Pereira, Maria De Lourdes; Pires-Das-Neves, Ricardo; Bastos, Maria De Lourdes', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Kidney international ', 'title': 'Pyridoxine effect in type I primary hyperoxaluria is associated with the most common mutant allele'}, {'document': ['Among mutants which require isoleucine, but not valine, for growth, we have found two distinguishable classes.  One is defective in the biosynthetic enzyme threonine deaminase (l-threonine hydro-lyase, deaminating, EC 4.2.1.16) and the other has an altered isoleucyl transfer ribonucleic acid (tRNA) synthetase [l-isoleucine: soluble RNA ligase (adenosine monophosphate), EC 6.1.1.5].  The mutation which affects ileS, the structural gene for isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase, is located between thr and pyrA at 0 min on the map of the Escherichia coli chromosome.  This mutationally altered isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase has an apparent K(m) for isoleucine ( approximately 1 mm) 300-fold higher than that of the enzyme from wild type; on the other hand, the apparent V(max) is altered only slightly.  When the mutationally altered ileS allele was introduced into a strain which overproduces isoleucine, the resulting strain could grow without addition of isoleucine.  We conclude that the normal intracellular isoleucine level is not high enough to allow efficient charging to tRNA(Ile) by the mutant enzyme because of the K(m) defect.  A consequence of the alteration in isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase was a fourfold derepression of the enzymes responsible for isoleucine biosynthesis.  Thus, a functional isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase is needed for isoleucine to act as a regulator of its own biosynthesis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['isoleucine biosynthesis'], 'process': ['threonine deaminase', 'deaminating', 'mutation', 'charging', 'derepression'], 'material': ['isoleucine', 'valine', 'biosynthetic enzyme', 'l-threonine hydro-lyase', 'isoleucyl transfer ribonucleic', 'tRNA', 'l-isoleucine', 'soluble RNA ligase', 'adenosine monophosphate', 'ileS', 'structural gene', 'isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase', 'thr', 'Escherichia coli chromosome', 'isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase', 'isoleucine', 'enzyme', 'isoleucine', 'intracellular isoleucine', 'isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase', 'isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase', 'isoleucine']}], 'authors': 'Ajamieh, Hussam; Merino, Nelson; Candelario-Jalil, Eduardo; Menendez, Silvia; Martinez-Sanchez, Gregorio; Re, Lamberto; Giuliani, Attilia; Leon, Olga Sonia', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Plant cell ', 'title': 'Plant eR genes that encode photorespiratory enzymes confer resistance against disease'}, {'document': ['The use of enzymes as catalysts for the preparation of novel compounds has received steadily increasing attention over the past few years.  High demands are placed on the identification of new biocatalysts for organic synthesis.  The catalysis of more ambitious reactions reflects the high expectations of this field of research.  Enzymes play an increasingly important role as biocatalysts in the synthesis of key intermediates for the pharmaceutical and chemical industry, and new enzymatic technologies and processes have been established.  Enzymes are an important part of the spectrum of catalysts available for synthetic chemistry.  The advantages and applications of the most recent and attractive biocatalysts--reductases, transaminases, ammonia lyases, epoxide hydrolases, and dehalogenases--will be discussed herein and exemplified by the syntheses of interesting compounds.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['use of', 'preparation of novel compounds', 'identification of new biocatalysts', 'catalysis of more ambitious reactions', 'synthetic chemistry', 'syntheses of interesting compounds'], 'process': ['organic synthesis', 'synthesis of key intermediates', 'enzymatic technologies and processes'], 'material': ['enzymes', 'Enzymes', 'biocatalysts', 'Enzymes', 'catalysts', 'biocatalysts', 'reductases', 'transaminases', 'ammonia lyases', 'epoxide hydrolases', 'dehalogenases']}], 'authors': 'Iraqui I; Vissers S; Cartiaux M; Urrestarazu A', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00204-002-0324-z', 'journal': 'Archives of Toxicology ', 'title': 'Effect of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine ("ecstasy") on body temperature and liver antioxidant status in mice: influence of ambient temperature'}, {'document': ['ω-Transaminase (ω-TA) is an industrially important enzyme for prodn. of chiral amines.  About 20 (S)-specific ω-TAs known to date show remarkably similar substrate selectivity characterized by stringent steric constraint precluding entry of a substituent larger than an Et group in the small binding pocket (S) and dual recognition of an arom. substituent as well as a carboxylate group in the large pocket (L).  The strictly defined substrate selectivity of the available ω-TAs remains a limiting factor in the prodn. of structurally diverse chiral amines.  In this work, we cloned, purified, and characterized three new ω-TAs from Ochrobactrum anthropi, Acinetobacter baumannii, and Acetobacter pasteurianus that were identified by a BLASTP search using the previously studied ω-TA from Paracoccus denitrificans.  All the new ω-TAs exhibited similar substrate specificity, which led us to explore whether the mol. determinants for the substrate specificity are conserved among the ω-TAs.  To this end, key active site residues were identified by docking simulation using the X-ray structure of the ω-TA from Pseudomonas putida.  We found that the dual recognition in the L pocket is ascribed to Tyr23, Phe88*, and Tyr152 for hydrophobic interaction and Arg414 for recognition of a carboxylate group.  In addn., the docking simulation indicates that Trp60 and Ile262 form the S pocket where the substituent size up to an Et group turns out to be sterically allowed.  The six key residues were found to be essentially conserved among nine ω-TA sequences, underlying the mol. basis for the high similarity in the substrate selectivity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn. of chiral amines', 'substrate selectivity', 'substrate specificity', 'substrate specificity', 'substrate selectivity'], 'process': ['ω-Transaminase', 'stringent steric constraint', 'dual recognition of an', 'prodn', 'BLASTP search', 'docking simulation', 'dual recognition', 'hydrophobic interaction', 'docking simulation'], 'material': ['ω-TA', 'ω-TAs', 'Et group', 'arom. substituent', 'carboxylate group', 'ω-TAs', 'structurally diverse chiral amines', 'ω-TAs', 'Ochrobactrum', 'Acinetobacter baumannii', 'Acetobacter pasteurianus', 'ω-TA', 'Paracoccus denitrificans', 'ω-TAs', 'ω-TAs', 'active site residues', 'X-ray', 'ω-TA', 'Pseudomonas putida', 'Tyr23', 'Phe88', '*', 'Tyr152', 'carboxylate group', 'Trp60', 'S pocket', 'Et group', 'ω-TA']}], 'authors': 'Green, Jacalyn M.; Merkel, William K.; Nichols, Brian P.', 'DOI': '10.1006/phrs.2002.0952', 'journal': 'Pharmacological Research ', 'title': 'Similar protective effect of ischaemic and ozone oxidative preconditionings in liver ischaemia/reperfusion injury'}, {'document': ['Biocatalysis has emerged as a powerful alternative to traditional chemistry, especially for asymmetric synthesis.  One key requirement during process development is the discovery of a biocatalyst with an appropriate enantiopreference and enantioselectivity, which can be achieved, for instance, by protein engineering or screening of metagenome libraries.  We have developed an in silico strategy for a sequence-based prediction of substrate specificity and enantiopreference.  First, we used rational protein design to predict key amino acid substitutions that indicate the desired activity.  Then, we searched protein databases for proteins already carrying these mutations instead of constructing the corresponding mutants in the laboratory.  This methodology exploits the fact that naturally evolved proteins have undergone selection over millions of years, which has resulted in highly optimized catalysts.  Using this in silico approach, we have discovered 17 (R)-selective amine transaminases, which catalyzed the synthesis of several (R)-amines with excellent optical purity up to >99% enantiomeric excess.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['traditional chemistry', 'sequence-based prediction of substrate specificity and enantiopreference', 'predict key amino acid substitutions'], 'process': ['Biocatalysis', 'asymmetric synthesis', 'process development', 'enantiopreference', 'protein engineering', 'screening of metagenome libraries', 'in silico strategy', 'rational protein design', 'selection', 'in silico approach'], 'material': ['biocatalyst', 'protein databases', 'naturally evolved proteins', 'highly optimized catalysts', '17 (R)-selective amine transaminases', 'several (R)-amines with excellent optical purity']}], 'authors': 'Abdelal A T', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular & general genetics : MGG ', 'title': 'Characterisation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae ARO8 and ARO9 genes encoding aromatic aminotransferases I and II reveals a new aminotransferase subfamily'}, {'document': ["The methionine salvage pathway is universally used to regenerate methionine from 5'-methylthioadenosine, a byproduct of certain reactions involving S-adenosylmethionine.  We identified and verified the genes encoding the enzymes of all steps in this cycle in a commonly used eukaryotic model system: the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  The genes encoding 5'-methylthioribose-1-phosphate isomerase and 5'-methylthioribulose-1-phosphate dehydratase are herein named MRI1 and MDE1, resp.  The 5'-methylthioadenosine phosphorylase was verified as Meu1p, the 2,3-dioxomethiopentane-1-phosphate enolase/phosphatase as Utr4p and the aci-reductone dioxygenase as Adi1p.  The homolog of the enolase/phosphatase gene, YNL010w, was excluded from its candidate role in the cycle.  The methodol. used involved auxotrophic growth tests and anal. of intracellular 5'-methylthioadenosine in deletion mutants.  The last step, a transamination of 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate to yield methionine, was found to be a highly redundant step.  It was catalyzed by amino acid transaminases, mainly coupled with arom. and branched chain amino acids as amino donors, but also with proline, lysine and glutamate/glutamine.  The arom. amino acid transaminases, Aro8p and Aro9p, and the branched chain amino acid transaminases, Bat1p and Bat2p, seemed to be the main enzymes exhibiting 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate transaminase activity.  Bat2p was found to be less specific and used proline, lysine, tyrosine and glutamate as amino donors in addn. to the branched chain amino acids.  Thus, for the first time, all enzymes of the methionine salvage pathway were identified in a eukaryote."], 'annotation': [{'task': ["anal. of intracellular 5'-methylthioadenosine"], 'process': ['methionine salvage pathway', "regenerate methionine from 5'-methylthioadenosine", 'Utr4p', 'auxotrophic growth tests', 'deletion mutants', 'transamination of 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate', 'amino acid transaminases', 'arom. amino acid transaminases', 'methionine salvage pathway'], 'material': ['S-adenosylmethionine', 'eukaryotic model system', 'yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae', "5'-methylthioribose-1-phosphate isomerase", "5'-methylthioribulose-1-phosphate dehydratase", 'MRI1', 'MDE1', "5'-methylthioadenosine phosphorylase", 'Meu1p', '2,3-dioxomethiopentane-1-phosphate enolase', 'aci-reductone dioxygenase', 'Adi1p', 'enolase/phosphatase gene', 'YNL010w', 'methionine', 'arom', 'branched chain amino acids', 'amino donors', 'proline', 'lysine', 'glutamate/glutamine', 'Aro8p', 'Aro9p', 'branched chain amino acid transaminases', 'Bat1p', 'Bat2p', '4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate transaminase activity', 'Bat2p', 'proline', 'lysine', 'tyrosine', 'glutamate', 'addn', 'branched chain amino acids', 'enzymes', 'eukaryote']}], 'authors': 'RAMAKRISHNAN T; ADELBERG E A', 'DOI': '10.1128/jb.174.16.5317-5323.1992', 'journal': 'Journal of Bacteriology ', 'title': 'Characterization and sequence of Escherichia coli pabC, the gene encoding aminodeoxychorismate lyase, a pyridoxal phosphate-containing enzyme'}, {'document': ["Excessive activation of NMDA receptors results in excitotoxic nerve cell loss, which is believed to play a critical role in the pathophysiology of Huntington's disease (HD) and several other catastrophic neurodegenerative diseases.  Kynurenic acid (KYNA), a neuroinhibitory tryptophan metabolite, has neuroprotective properties and may serve as an endogenous anti-excitotoxic agent.  This hypothesis was tested in the striatum, using mice with a targeted deletion of kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), a major biosynthetic enzyme of KYNA in the mammalian brain.  On post-natal day (PND) 14, the striatum of mkat-2-/- mice showed a reduction in KYNA levels but contained normal concentrations of the metabolically related neurotoxins 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinic acid (QUIN).  Intrastriatal injections of QUIN, a NMDA receptor agonist, caused significantly larger lesions in these immature mutant mice than in age-matched wild-type animals.  This lesion enlargement was not observed when mkat-2-/- mice were acutely pre-treated with the kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitor UPF 648, which counteracted the striatal KYNA deficit.  Moreover, no increased vulnerability to QUIN was observed in 2-month-old mkat-2-/- mice, which present with normal brain KYNA levels.  Intrastriatal injections of the non-NMDA receptor agonist kainate caused similar lesion sizes in both genotypes regardless of age.  These results indicate that endogenous KYNA preferentially controls the vulnerability of striatal neurons to QUIN.  Our data suggest that timely pharmacological interventions resulting in an up-regulation of brain KYNA levels may benefit patients suffering from HD or other neurodegenerative diseases."], 'annotation': [{'task': ["pathophysiology of Huntington's disease", 'HD'], 'process': ['Excessive activation of NMDA receptors', 'HD', 'biosynthetic enzyme', 'reduction in KYNA levels', 'lesion enlargement', 'striatal KYNA deficit', 'Intrastriatal injections', 'pharmacological interventions', 'up-regulation of brain KYNA levels'], 'material': ['Kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'neuroinhibitory tryptophan metabolite', 'mice with a targeted', 'kynurenine aminotransferase', 'KAT', 'II', 'KYNA', 'striatum', 'metabolically related neurotoxins', '3-hydroxykynurenine', 'quinolinic', 'QUIN', 'Intrastriatal injections', 'QUIN', 'NMDA receptor agonist', 'immature mutant mice', 'age-matched wild-type animals', 'mkat-2-/- mice', 'kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitor', 'UPF 648', 'QUIN', '2-month-old', 'non-NMDA receptor agonist', 'kainate', 'endogenous KYNA', 'striatal neurons', 'QUIN']}], 'authors': 'Crespo, Irene; Miguel, Beatriz S.; Laliena, Almudena; Alvarez, Marcelino; Culebras, Jesus M.; Gonzalez-Gallego, Javier; Tunon, Maria J.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Annual review of microbiology ', 'title': 'Arginine catabolism by microorganisms'}, {'document': ['Aim: To investigate glutathione and antioxidant status changes in erythrocytes from febrile children receiving repeated supratherapeutic paracetamol doses.  Methods: Fifty-one children aged 2 mo to 10 yr participated in the study.  Three groups were studied: group 1 (n = 24) included afebrile children who did not receive paracetamol; and groups 2 (n = 13) and 3 (n = 14) included children who had fever above 38.5°C for more than 72 h.  Patients in group 2 received paracetamol at a dose of 50 ± 1.5 (30-75) mg kg-1 day-1 and those in group 3 received paracetamol above the recommended therapeutic dose, i.e. 107 ± 28 (80-180) mg kg-1 day-1.  A blood sample was taken for the measurement of liver transaminases, gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and antioxidant status.  Results: Aspartate aminotransferase activity in group 3 was higher than in the other groups (P = 0.027).  GSH, SOD and antioxidant status were significantly lower in group 3 compared with groups 1 and 2 (mean differences: for GSH 3.41 μmol gHb-1, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.10-4.72, and 2.15 μmol gHb-1, 95% CI 0.65-3.65, resp.; for SOD 856 U min-1 gHb-1, 95% CI 397-1316, and 556 U min-1 gHb-1, 95% CI 30-1082, resp.; and for antioxidant status 0.83 mmol l-1 plasma, 95% CI 0.30-1.36, and 0.63 mmol l-1 plasma, 95% CI 0.02-1.24, resp.).  GR activity was significantly lower in groups 3 and 2 in comparison with group 1 (mean differences 3.44 U min-1 gHb-1, 95% CI 0.63-6.25, and 5.64 U min-1 gHb-1, 95% CI 2.90-8.38, resp.).  Using multiple regression anal., paracetamol dose was found to be the only independent variable affecting GR, GST and SOD activities (P = 0.007, 0.003 and 0.008, resp.).  Conclusions: In febrile children, treatment with repeated supratherapeutic doses of paracetamol is assocd. with reduced antioxidant status and erythrocyte glutathione concns.  These significant changes may indicate an increased risk for hepatotoxicity and liver damage.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['investigate glutathione and antioxidant status changes'], 'process': ['supratherapeutic paracetamol doses', 'GGT', 'glutathione reductase', 'GR', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'GST', 'superoxide dismutase', 'antioxidant status', 'antioxidant status', 'antioxidant status', 'multiple regression anal', 'GST', 'treatment with repeated supratherapeutic doses of paracetamol', 'hepatotoxicity', 'liver damage'], 'material': ['afebrile children', 'paracetamol', 'children who', 'paracetamol', 'paracetamol', 'blood sample', 'liver transaminases', 'gamma-glutamyl', 'reduced glutathione', 'GSH', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'GPX', 'SOD', 'Aspartate aminotransferase', 'GSH', 'SOD', 'GSH', 'SOD', 'GR', 'paracetamol', 'GR', 'SOD', 'febrile children', 'reduced antioxidant status', 'erythrocyte glutathione concns']}], 'authors': 'Alkondon Manickavasagon; Pereira Edna F R; Yu Ping; Arruda Emerson Z; Almeida Luis E F; Guidetti Paolo; Fawcett William P; Sapko Michael T; Randall William R; Schwarcz Robert; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'REGULATORY MECHANISMS IN THE BIOSYNTHESIS OF ISOLEUCINE AND VALINE. 3. MAP ORDER OF THE STRUCTURAL GENES AND OPERATOR GENES'}, {'document': ['Long-term caloric restriction (CR) has been shown to extend maximum life span in laboratory rodents.  We investigated the activities of gluconeogenic and transaminase enzymes in the livers of old and young mice fed either control or calorie-restricted diets.  Livers were sampled 48 h after the last scheduled feeding time.  Old mice on CR showed significant increases in the activities of pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and glucose-6-phosphatase when compared with controls, indicating increased gluconeogenesis.  Increased activities of tyrosine, tryptophan, histidine, phenylalanine, alanine and aspartate transaminases, as well as of malate and glutamate dehydrogenases were also observed, while branched-chain amino acid transaminase was unchanged.  Young mice on CR showed a significant increase only in the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity in the gluconeogenic pathway, while transaminases were increased significantly, except for tryptophan and branched-chain amino acid transaminases.  Glutamate dehydrogenase also showed increased activity but malate dehydrogenase was unchanged.  Increases in the level of acetyl-CoA and [Acetyl-CoA]/[CoA] ratio were observed only in the old CR mice.  Our results demonstrate increased gluconeogenic activity in CR mice and are consistent with a state of increased hepatic gluconeogenesis and protein turnover during CR.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['activities of gluconeogenic and transaminase enzymes'], 'process': ['Long-term caloric restriction', 'CR', 'extend maximum life span', 'increased gluconeogenesis', 'Increased activities', 'glutamate dehydrogenases', 'phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity', 'Glutamate dehydrogenase', 'malate dehydrogenase', 'Increases in the level of acetyl-CoA', 'increased gluconeogenic activity', 'increased hepatic gluconeogenesis and protein turnover', 'CR'], 'material': ['laboratory rodents', 'old and young mice', 'control or calorie-restricted diets', 'Livers', 'CR', 'pyruvate carboxylase', 'phosphoenolpyruvate', 'fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase', 'glucose-6-phosphatase', 'tyrosine', 'tryptophan', 'histidine', 'phenylalanine', 'alanine', 'malate', 'branched-chain amino acid transaminase', 'Young mice', 'CR', 'transaminases', 'tryptophan', 'branched-chain amino acid transaminases', '[Acetyl-CoA]/[CoA]', 'CR mice', 'CR mice']}], 'authors': 'Frey P A', 'DOI': '10.1111/j.1600-079X.2010.00787.x', 'journal': 'Journal of Pineal Research ', 'title': 'Melatonin prevents the decreased activity of antioxidant enzymes and activates nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 signaling in an animal model of fulminant hepatic failure of viral origin'}, {'document': ['Branched-chain amino acid transaminases (BCATs) play a crucial role in the metabolism of leucine, isoleucine, and valine.  They catalyze the last step of the synthesis and/or the initial step of the degradation of this class of amino acids.  In Arabidopsis, seven putative BCAT genes are identified by their similarity to their counterparts from other organisms.  We have now cloned the respective cDNA sequences of six of these genes.  The deduced amino acid sequences show between 47.5% and 84.1% identity to each other and about 30% to the homologous enzymes from yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and mammals.  In addition, many amino acids in crucial positions as determined by crystallographic analyses of BCATs from Escherichia coli and human (Homo sapiens) are conserved in the AtBCATs.  Complementation of a yeast Deltabat1/Deltabat2 double knockout strain revealed that five AtBCATs can function as BCATs in vivo.  Transient expression of BCAT:green fluorescent protein fusion proteins in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts shows that three isoenzymes are imported into chloroplasts (AtBCAT-2, -3, and -5), whereas a single enzyme is directed into mitochondria (AtBCAT-1).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['metabolism of'], 'process': ['Branched-chain amino acid transaminases', 'BCATs', 'synthesis', 'BCAT genes', 'crystallographic analyses', 'Complementation', 'Transient expression'], 'material': ['leucine', 'isoleucine', 'valine', 'cDNA sequences', 'enzymes', 'yeast', 'Saccharomyces cerevisiae', 'BCATs', 'AtBCATs', 'yeast Deltabat1/Deltabat2', 'AtBCATs', 'BCATs', 'BCAT', ':green fluorescent protein fusion proteins', 'tobacco', 'Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts', 'AtBCAT-2', 'mitochondria', 'AtBCAT-1']}], 'authors': 'Godfroid F; Taminiau B; Danese I; Denoel P; Tibor A; Weynants V; Cloeckaert A; Godfroid J; Letesson J J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience ', 'title': 'Targeted deletion of the kynurenine aminotransferase ii gene reveals a critical role of endogenous kynurenic acid in the regulation of synaptic transmission via alpha7 nicotinic receptors in the hippocampus'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND & AIMS:  Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common form of chronic liver disease.  Insulin resistance (IR) appears to be critical in its pathogenesis.  We evaluated the effects of sodium butyrate (butyrate) and its synthetic derivative N-(1-carbamoyl-2-phenyl-ethyl) butyramide (FBA) in a rat model of insulin resistance and steatosis induced by high-fat diet (HFD).  METHODS:  After weaning, young male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 4 groups receiving different diets for 6 weeks: 1. control group (standard diet); 2.  HFD; 3.  HFD plus butyrate (20 mg/kg/die) and 4.  HFD plus FBA (42.5 mg/Kg/die, the equimolecular dose of butyrate).  Liver tissues of the rats were analyzed by Western blot and real-time PCR.  Insulin resistance, liver inflammation and Toll-like pattern modifications were determined.  RESULTS:  Evaluation of these two preparations of butyrate showed a reduction of liver steatosis and inflammation in HFD fed animals.  The compounds showed a similar potency in the normalisation of several variables, such as transaminases, homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance index, and glucose tolerance.  Both treatments significantly reduced hepatic TNF-α expression and restored GLUTs and PPARs, either in liver or adipose tissue.  Finally, FBA showed a higher potency in reducing pro-inflammatory parameters in the liver, via suppression of Toll-like receptors and NF-κB activation.  CONCLUSIONS:  Our results demonstrated a protective effect of butyrate in limiting molecular events underlying the onset of IR and NAFLD, suggesting a potential clinical relevance for this substance.  In particular, its derivative, FBA, could represent an alternative therapeutic option to sodium butyrate, sharing a comparable efficacy, but a better palatability and compliance.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['rat model of insulin resistance', 'reducing pro-inflammatory parameters', 'clinical relevance'], 'process': ['Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease', 'NAFLD', 'chronic liver disease', 'Insulin resistance', 'IR', 'steatosis', 'high-fat diet', 'HFD', 'HFD', 'Western blot', 'real-time PCR', 'Insulin', 'liver inflammation', 'Toll-like pattern modifications', 'liver steatosis and inflammation', 'homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance index', 'suppression of Toll-like receptors', 'NF-κB activation', 'IR', 'NAFLD'], 'material': ['sodium butyrate', 'butyrate', 'N-(1-carbamoyl-2-phenyl-ethyl) butyramide', 'FBA', 'young male Sprague-Dawley rats', 'control group', 'standard diet', 'HFD', 'butyrate', 'HFD', 'FBA', 'butyrate', 'Liver tissues', 'rats', 'butyrate', 'HFD fed animals', 'compounds', 'GLUTs', 'PPARs', 'liver', 'adipose', 'FBA', 'butyrate', 'its derivative', 'FBA', 'sodium butyrate']}], 'authors': 'Alberati-Giani D; Ricciardi-Castagnoli P; Kohler C; Cesura A M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Annual review of biochemistry ', 'title': 'Radical mechanisms of enzymatic catalysis'}, {'document': ['Chronic courses of hepatitis E virus (HEV) infections have been described in immunosuppressed patients.  We aimed to study the role of HEV infections in heart transplant recipients (HTR). 274 HTR were prospectively screened for HEV infection using an anti-HEV-IgG ELISA and HEV-PCR.  In addition, 137 patients undergoing cardiac surgery (non-HTR) and 537 healthy subjects were studied cross-sectionally.  The anti-HEV-IgG seroprevalence was 11% in HTR, 7% in non-HTR and 2% in healthy controls (HTR vs. healthy controls p<0.0001; non-HTR vs. healthy controls p<0.01).  Anti-HEV tested positive in 4.0% in control cohorts of other immunocompromised patients (n = 474).  Four HTR (1.5%) were chronically infected with HEV as shown by HEV-PCR and all four patients had liver transaminases of >200 IU/L and histological or clinical evidence of advanced liver disease.  In three patients ribavirin treatment was successful with a sustained biochemical and virological response while treatment failed in one cirrhotic patient after ribavirin dose reduction.  Heart transplant recipients and patients undergoing cardiac surgery have an increased risk for HEV infections.  Chronic hepatitis E may explain elevated liver enzymes in heart transplant recipients.  Treatment of HEV infection with ribavirin is effective but the optimal dose and duration of ribavirin therapy remains to be determined.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Chronic courses of hepatitis E virus', 'study the role of HEV infections', 'advanced liver disease'], 'process': ['HEV) infections', 'HEV infection', 'HEV-PCR', 'cardiac surgery', 'chronically infected', 'HEV-PCR', 'ribavirin treatment', 'sustained biochemical and virological response', 'ribavirin dose reduction', 'HEV infections', 'Treatment of HEV infection', 'ribavirin therapy'], 'material': ['immunosuppressed patients', 'heart transplant recipients', '274 HTR', 'anti-HEV-IgG ELISA', 'healthy subjects', 'anti-HEV-IgG seroprevalence', 'Anti-HEV', 'HEV', 'liver transaminases', 'histological or clinical evidence', 'Heart transplant recipients', 'patients undergoing cardiac surgery', 'Chronic hepatitis', 'elevated liver enzymes', 'heart transplant recipients', 'ribavirin']}], 'authors': 'Fontana, Luis; Moreira, Eliane; Torres, Maria Isabel; Fernandez, Maria Isabel; Rios, Antonio; Sanchez de Medina, Fermin; Gil, Angel', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Infection and immunity ', 'title': 'Identification of the perosamine synthetase gene of Brucella melitensis 16M and involvement of lipopolysaccharide O side chain in Brucella survival in mice and in macrophages'}, {'document': ['Signature-tagged mutagenesis (STM) is a method that has been used to screen for genes required for in vivo survival of pathogenic bacteria, but has not been used to investigate a eukaryotic pathogen in an animal model of disease.  We have adapted STM to identify genes required for in vivo growth of the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus.  Using a mouse model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, we have isolated several mutant strains with defects in their ability to replicate in vivo.  One strain unable to cause lethal infection was further characterized and found to have an insertion into the promoter of a gene (pabaA) encoding para-aminobenzoic acid synthetase, an enzyme catalyzing a late step in the biosynthesis of folate.  The complete inability of this strain, and other pabaA- strains constructed in this study by targeted gene deletion, to cause lethal infection in mice confirms the importance of the folate synthesis pathway for in vivo survival of this pathogen.  The successful application of STM to A. fumigatus demonstrates that in vivo genetic analysis of eukaryotic pathogens is feasible and could result in the identification of potential targets, such as para-aminobenzoic acid synthetase, for novel antifungal therapies.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['screen for genes', 'investigate a eukaryotic pathogen', 'animal model of disease', 'mouse model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis', 'novel antifungal therapies'], 'process': ['Signature-tagged mutagenesis', 'STM', 'STM', 'identify genes required for in vivo growth', 'targeted gene deletion', 'folate synthesis pathway', 'in vivo genetic analysis', 'identification of potential targets'], 'material': ['opportunistic fungal pathogen', 'Aspergillus fumigatus', 'pabaA', 'para-aminobenzoic acid synthetase', 'pabaA- strains', 'STM', 'A. fumigatus', 'eukaryotic pathogens', 'para-aminobenzoic acid synthetase']}], 'authors': 'Lippert B; Metcalf B W; Jung M J; Casara P', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of neurochemistry ', 'title': 'Regulation of the kynurenine metabolic pathway by interferon-gamma in murine cloned macrophages and microglial cells'}, {'document': ['During the preclinical, early clinical, late-stage clinical, and postmarketing phases of the pharmaceutical discovery and development process, one important aspect of drug safety assessment involves monitoring for possible drug-induced hepatic injury.  Hepatic injuries vary in nature from direct, intrinsic effects that are observed in most recipients and more than one species to rare idiosyncratic responses seen only in a few clinical subjects.  Histological types of injuries vary from hepatocellular to hepatobiliary with multiple cellular effects characteristic of each type.  Of the various clinical laboratory markers for hepatic injury, serum transaminases, especially alanine aminotransferase (ALT), are the most universally important indicators for studies ranging from early preclinical animal testing to postmarketing patient monitoring.  This review examines the characteristics of hepatic toxicity that result in serum ALT changes, the differences in the etiology of hepatic responses which govern when liver injury is most likely to be detected during the four phases of the drug discovery and development process, and those modulating factors which affect the utility of ALT as a dependable marker of hepatic injury in clinical populations.  The paper concludes with a summary of some ancillary methods for early preclinical screening such as in vitro metabolism and toxicity assays, gene and protein expression analysis, and some strategies for enhancing the probability for the early detection of idiosyncratic hepatotoxic responses which are infrequent but significant factors in the safety assessment process.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['drug safety assessment', 'monitoring for possible drug-induced hepatic injury', 'Histological types of injuries', 'differences in the etiology of hepatic responses', 'enhancing the probability for the early detection of idiosyncratic hepatotoxic responses'], 'process': ['pharmaceutical discovery and development process', 'Hepatic injuries', 'hepatocellular', 'hepatic injury', 'hepatic toxicity', 'serum ALT changes', 'liver injury', 'drug discovery and development process', 'hepatic injury', 'in vitro metabolism', 'toxicity assays', 'gene and protein expression analysis', 'safety assessment process'], 'material': ['clinical laboratory markers', 'serum transaminases', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'ALT', 'ALT', 'ancillary methods']}], 'authors': 'Iaccarino M; Berg P', 'DOI': '10.1016/0300-483X(95)03177-H', 'journal': 'Toxicology ', 'title': 'Serum amino acid changes in rats with thioacetamide-induced liver cirrhosis'}, {'document': ['A flavivirus related to the tick-borne encephalitis complex was isolated from the blood of 6 male butchers, aged 24-39 years, in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia in November and December 1995.  Two of the patients died and the other 4 recovered completely.  Four more patients, 3 males and 1 female, were diagnosed serologically by immunoglobulin M capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and seroconversion in acute and convalescent blood samples examined by indirect immunofluorescent test using Vero cells infected with the isolated virus.  The virus identity was confirmed at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Fort Collins, Colorado, USA, by the polymerase chain reaction; it was closely related to Kayasanur Forest disease virus.  All infected patients had similar clinical and laboratory symptoms and signs, including fever, headache, generalized body aches, arthralgia, anorexia, vomiting, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, elevated liver enzymes (serum glutamic oxalacetic and serum glutamic pyruvic transaminases), elevated creatinine phosphokinase, and elevated blood urea.  One patient developed symptoms of encephalitis, but survived without any sequel.  Skin rash developed in 2 patients, morbilliform on the hands, feet, and lower abdomen of one patient and purpuric associated with melaena in the second patient.  Eight of the 10 confirmed patients were working with sheep, and the disease may be a zoonotic viral infection.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['immunoglobulin M capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay', 'seroconversion', 'indirect immunofluorescent test', 'polymerase chain reaction', 'encephalitis', 'Skin rash'], 'material': ['flavivirus related to the tick-borne encephalitis complex', 'acute and convalescent blood samples', 'Vero cells', 'Centers for Disease Control and Prevention', 'Kayasanur Forest disease virus', 'elevated liver enzymes', 'serum glutamic oxalacetic and serum glutamic pyruvic transaminases', 'elevated creatinine phosphokinase', 'elevated blood urea', 'sheep', 'zoonotic viral infection']}], 'authors': 'Heptinstall J; Quayle J R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'European journal of biochemistry ', 'title': '4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid, a selective catalytic inhibitor of 4-aminobutyric-acid aminotransferase in mammalian brain'}, {'document': ['OBJECTIVE:  To assess the effect of alpha-interferon therapy on hepatitis C viral RNA in serum of patients with chronic hepatitis C.  DESIGN:  Retrospective testing for hepatitis C viral (HCV) RNA and antibody to the hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV) of stored serum samples from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of alpha-interferon therapy.  SETTING:  Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health, a tertiary referral center.  PATIENTS:  Forty-one patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis were entered in this trial.  INTERVENTIONS:  Twenty-one patients were treated with alpha-interferon, and 20 patients were treated with placebo for 6 months.  Seventeen placebo recipients were then treated with alpha-interferon for up to 1 year.  METHODS:  Samples were tested for anti-HCV by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.  Hepatitis C viral RNA was detected in serum using the polymerase chain reaction.  Titers of both antibody and RNA were determined by serial end-point dilution.  MAIN RESULTS:  At entry into the trial, 37 (90%) of 41 patients had anti-HCV and 39 (95%) had HCV RNA in serum.  Anti-HCV titers decreased slightly with treatment.  Serum levels of HCV RNA decreased in all patients who responded to alpha-interferon therapy with improvements in serum aminotransferases; in 17 of 21 responders (81%; 95% Cl, 58% to 95%) HCV RNA became undetectable.  In contrast, in only 2 of 16 (12%; Cl, 2% to 38%) patients who did not respond to treatment did HCV RNA become undetectable.  In 19 patients treated during the preliminary 6-month period with placebo, HCV RNA remained detectable.  Finally, in the 11 patients who relapsed when treatment was stopped, HCV RNA reappeared in the serum, but in 4 of 7 patients with a sustained improvement in serum aminotransferases, HCV RNA remained undetectable.  CONCLUSIONS:  These results indicate that the clinical and serum biochemical response to alpha-interferon in chronic hepatitis C is associated with a loss of detectable HCV genome from serum.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['assess the effect of', 'Retrospective testing', 'randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial'], 'process': ['alpha-interferon therapy', 'alpha-interferon therapy', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay', 'polymerase chain reaction', 'serial end-point dilution', 'HCV RNA'], 'material': ['hepatitis C viral RNA', 'hepatitis C viral', 'HCV', 'hepatitis C virus', 'Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center', 'tertiary referral center', 'alpha-interferon', 'placebo', 'alpha-interferon', 'Hepatitis C viral RNA', 'Titers of both', 'antibody', 'RNA', 'anti-HCV', 'HCV RNA', 'Anti-HCV titers', 'Serum levels', 'HCV RNA', 'alpha-interferon therapy', 'serum aminotransferases', 'HCV RNA', 'placebo', 'HCV RNA', 'HCV RNA', 'serum aminotransferases', 'HCV RNA', 'alpha-interferon', 'chronic hepatitis C', 'HCV genome']}], 'authors': 'Nestl Bettina M; Hammer Stephan C; Nebel Bernd A; Hauer Bernhard', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Isoleucine auxotrophy as a consequence of a mutationally altered isoleucyl-transfer ribonucleic acid synthetase'}, {'document': ['Most patients with the autosomal recessive disease primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) have a complete deficiency of alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) enzyme activity and immunoreactive protein.  However a few possess significant residual activity and protein.  In normal human liver, AGT is entirely peroxisomal, whereas it is entirely mitochondrial in carnivores, and both peroxisomal and mitochondrial in rodents.  Using the techniques of isopycnic sucrose and Percoll density gradient centrifugation and quantitative protein A-gold immunoelectron microscopy, we have found that in two PH1 patients, possessing 9 and 27% residual AGT activity, both the enzyme activity and immunoreactive protein were largely mitochondrial and not peroxisomal.  In addition, these individuals were more severely affected than expected from the levels of their residual AGT activity.  In these patients, the PH1 appears to be due, at least in part, to a unique trafficking defect, in which peroxisomal AGT is diverted to the mitochondria.  To our knowledge, this is the first example of a genetic disease caused by such interorganellar rerouting.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['PH1', 'PH1'], 'process': ['primary hyperoxaluria', 'alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'isopycnic sucrose and Percoll density gradient centrifugation', 'quantitative protein A-gold immunoelectron microscopy', 'enzyme', 'AGT activity', 'trafficking defect', 'genetic disease', 'interorganellar rerouting'], 'material': ['AGT', 'AGT', 'PH1 patients', '9 and 27% residual AGT activity', 'immunoreactive protein', 'peroxisomal AGT', 'mitochondria']}], 'authors': 'Park, Eul-Soo; Kim, Minji; Shin, Jong-Shik', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Pathways leading to and from serine during growth of Pseudomonas AM1 on C1 compounds or succinate'}, {'document': ['The expression of enzymes in LLC-PK1 and MDCK cells was used to study the retention of differentiated properties of the renal epithelial cell lines by a biochem. approach.  Activities of marker enzymes, for which intracellular and intranephron localization is known, were detd. from crude cell homogenates of LLC-PK1 and MDCK monolayer cultures.  The activity patterns of the particular enzymes found were then compared with the in vivo distribution of the enzymes along the rat nephron.  LLC-PK1 cells exhibit high activities of apical membrane enzymes when compared with MDCK cells, whereas in the latter high activity of Na-K-ATPase could be detected.  The activities of lysosomal enzymes, mitochondrial enzymes, and transaminases were higher in LLC-PK1 than in MDCK cells.  Glycolytic enzymes, however, displayed identical activity levels in both the LLC-PK1 and MDCK cells, which may be due to the fact that these are continuous cell lines and to the culture conditions used, since glucose is a major energy source in the culture media.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['study the retention of differentiated properties of the renal epithelial cell lines', 'compared with the'], 'process': ['expression of enzymes', 'biochem. approach', 'activity patterns'], 'material': ['LLC-PK1', 'MDCK cells', 'crude cell homogenates', 'LLC-PK1', 'MDCK monolayer cultures', 'in vivo distribution', 'LLC-PK1 cells', 'apical membrane enzymes', 'MDCK cells', 'Na-K-ATPase', 'lysosomal enzymes', 'mitochondrial enzymes', 'transaminases', 'LLC-PK1', 'MDCK cells', 'Glycolytic enzymes', 'LLC-PK1', 'MDCK cells', 'glucose', 'culture media']}], 'authors': 'Hohne Matthias; Schatzle Sebastian; Jochens Helge; Robins Karen; Bornscheuer Uwe T', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Angewandte Chemie ', 'title': " The following enzymes of the phosphorylated pathway of serine biosynthesis have been found in methanol- and succinate-grown Pseudomonas AM1: phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase, phosphoserine-alpha-oxoglutarate aminotransferase and phosphoserine phosphohydrolase.  Their specific activities were similar in the organism grown on either substrate. 2.  A procedure for preparation of auxotrophic mutants of Pseudomonas AM1 is described involving N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine as mutagen and a penicillin enrichment step. 3.  A mutant, M-15A, has been isolated that is unable to grow on methanol and that lacks phenazine methosulphate-linked methanol dehydrogenase.  The mutant is able to grow on methylamine, showing that the amine is not oxidized by way of methanol. 4.  Loss of methanol dehydrogenase activity in mutant M-15A led to loss of phenazine methosulphate-linked formaldehyde dehydrogenase activity showing that the same enzyme is probably responsible for both activities. 5.  A mutant, 20B-L, has been isolated that cannot grow on any C(1) compound tested but can grow on succinate. 6.  Mutant 20B-L lacks hydroxypyruvate reductase, and revertants that regained the ability to grow on methanol, methylamine and formate contained hydroxypyruvate reductase activity at specific activities similar to that of the wild-type organism.  This shows that hydroxypyruvate reductase is necessary for growth on methanol, methylamine and formate but not for growth on succinate. 7.  The results suggest that during growth of Pseudomonas AM1 on C(1) compounds, serine is converted into 3-phosphoglycerate by a non-phosphorylated pathway, whereas during growth on succinate, phosphoglycerate is converted into serine by a phosphorylated pathway."}, {'document': ['In Neurospora crassa, histidine starvation of histidine mutants resulted in derepression of histidine, tryptophan, and arginine biosynthetic enzymes.  The same tripartite derepression occurred in wild-type strain 74A when it was grown in medium supplemented with 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole, an inhibitor of histidine biosynthesis.  Histidine-mediated derepression of tryptophan and arginine biosynthetic enzymes was not due to a lowered intracellular concentration of tryptophan or arginine, respectively.  A discussion of possible mechanisms and of similar studies in prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms is presented.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['discussion of possible mechanisms'], 'process': ['histidine starvation', 'derepression of', 'tripartite derepression', 'histidine biosynthesis', 'Histidine-mediated derepression', 'lowered intracellular concentration'], 'material': ['Neurospora crassa', 'histidine mutants', 'histidine', 'tryptophan', 'arginine biosynthetic enzymes', 'wild-type strain', '3-amino-1,2,4-triazole', 'tryptophan', 'arginine biosynthetic enzymes', 'tryptophan', 'arginine', 'prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms']}], 'authors': 'Pirkov, Ivan; Norbeck, Joakim; Gustafsson, Lena; Albers, Eva', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00253-011-3584-9', 'journal': 'Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology ', 'title': 'New generation of biocatalysts for organic synthesis'}, {'document': ['Mutants of Escherichia coli K-12 have been isolated in which several enzymes concerned with tyrosine biosynthesis are derepressed.  These mutants were obtained from a parent strain possessing only a single 3-deoxy-d-arabinoheptulosonic acid-7-phosphate (DAHP) synthetase isoenzyme, DAHP synthetase (tyr), by selecting for resistance to the tyrosine analogue, 4-aminophenylalanine.  The mutation responsible for this derepression has been mapped and the gene, which is not closely linked to aroF and tyrA, has been designated tyrR.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Mutants of Escherichia coli K-12 have been isolated'], 'process': ['tyrosine biosynthesis', 'DAHP synthetase', 'selecting for resistance', 'mutation'], 'material': ['parent strain', '3-deoxy-d-arabinoheptulosonic acid-7-phosphate', 'DAHP', 'tyr', 'tyrosine analogue', '4-aminophenylalanine', 'aroF', 'tyrA', 'tyrR.']}], 'authors': 'Sapko Michael T; Guidetti Paolo; Yu Ping; Tagle Danilo A; Pellicciari Roberto; Schwarcz Robert', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Nature chemical biology ', 'title': 'Molecular determinants for substrate selectivity of ω-transaminases'}, {'document': ['The study aimed to evaluate the hepatic antioxidant capacity of embelin (from Embelia ribes) using different antioxidant tests, free radical scavenging activity and lipid peroxidn. in albino rats.  Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) treatment to rats has been more susceptible to peroxidative damage through prodn. of reactive metabolites, namely trichloromethyl-free radicals (CCl· 3 and/or CCl3OO·) as measured by thiobarbituric acid reactive species.  After the induction of liver damage by CCl4 intoxication to rats, the concn. of lipid peroxidn. was significantly (P ≤ 0.001) higher in liver and serum, along with concomitant decrease in the levels of antioxidants and cytochrome P 450 enzyme in liver as compared to vehicle controls.  The activities of marker enzymes, transaminases (AST, ALT), alk. phosphatase (ALP), γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), along with the total bilirubin and total protein levels were altered significantly (P ≤ 0.001) in the serum of CCl4-treated rats.  When these rats received embelin orally (25 mg/kg) from day 1 to day 15, peroxidative damage was minimal in both liver and serum along with effectively inducing the antioxidant potential in CCl4-treated rats.  The biochem. results were compared with the std. drug silymarin, a combination of flavonolignans of Silybum marianum and histol. of liver sections.  In conclusion, this study suggests that embelin acts as a natural antioxidant against hepatotoxicity induced in rats.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['evaluate the hepatic antioxidant capacity'], 'process': ['antioxidant tests', 'free radical scavenging activity', 'lipid peroxidn', 'Carbon tetrachloride', 'peroxidative damage', 'prodn. of reactive metabolites', 'liver damage', 'CCl4 intoxication', 'lipid peroxidn', 'AST', 'ALT', 'alk. phosphatase', 'ALP', 'γ-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'GGT', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'LDH', 'peroxidative damage', 'antioxidant potential', 'hepatotoxicity'], 'material': ['embelin', 'CCl4', 'trichloromethyl-free radicals', 'CCl· 3', 'CCl3OO', '·', 'thiobarbituric acid reactive species', 'liver', 'antioxidants', 'cytochrome P 450 enzyme', 'total bilirubin', 'total protein', 'CCl4-treated rats', 'rats', 'embelin', 'liver', 'CCl4-treated rats', 'std. drug', 'silymarin', 'combination of flavonolignans', 'Silybum marianum', 'histol', 'liver sections', 'embelin']}], 'authors': 'Kozer, Eran; Evans, Sandra; Barr, Joseph; Greenberg, Revital; Soriano, Ingrid; Bulkowstein, Mordechai; Petrov, Irena; Chen-Levi, Zehava; Barzilay, Bernard; Berkovitch, Matitiahu', 'DOI': '10.1111/j.1742-4658.2008.06552.x', 'journal': 'FEBS Journal ', 'title': 'Rational assignment of key motifs for function guides in silico enzyme identification'}, {'document': ['Although lysine (Lys) biosynthesis in plants is known to occur by way of a pathway that utilizes diaminopimelic acid (DAP) as a central intermediate, the available evidence suggests that none of the known DAP-pathway variants found in nature occur in plants.  A new Lys biosynthesis pathway has been identified in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) that utilizes a novel transaminase that specifically catalyzes the interconversion of tetrahydrodipicolinate and LL-diaminopimelate, a reaction requiring three enzymes in the DAP-pathway variant found in Escherichia coli.  The LL-DAP aminotransferase encoded by locus At4g33680 was able to complement the dapD and dapE mutants of E. coli.  This result, in conjunction with the kinetic properties and substrate specificity of the enzyme, indicated that LL-DAP aminotransferase functions in the Lys biosynthetic direction under in vivo conditions.  Orthologs of At4g33680 were identified in all the cyanobacterial species whose genomes have been sequenced.  The Synechocystis sp. ortholog encoded by locus sll0480 showed the same functional properties as At4g33680.  These results demonstrate that the Lys biosynthesis pathway in plants and cyanobacteria is distinct from the pathways that have so far been defined in microorganisms.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['biosynthesis in plants', 'DAP-pathway variants', 'Lys biosynthesis pathway', 'transaminase that specifically', 'Lys biosynthetic direction', 'Lys biosynthesis pathway'], 'material': ['lysine', 'Lys', 'diaminopimelic acid', 'DAP', 'Arabidopsis', 'tetrahydrodipicolinate', 'LL-diaminopimelate', 'DAP-pathway variant', 'Escherichia coli', 'LL-DAP aminotransferase', 'dapD', 'dapE', 'LL-DAP aminotransferase', 'cyanobacterial species', 'Synechocystis sp.', 'sll0480', 'plants', 'cyanobacteria', 'microorganisms']}], 'authors': 'Hagopian Kevork; Ramsey Jon J; Weindruch Richard', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Experimental neurology ', 'title': 'A complete inventory of all enzymes in the eukaryotic methionine salvage pathway'}, {'document': ["We report studies of a Greek boy of gypsy origin that show that he has severe deficiency of glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT) activity due to apparent homozygosity for a novel mutation in the gene encoding this enzyme that changes asparagine-140 to serine.  At age 2 yr he was found to have mildly elevated serum liver transaminases that have persisted to his present age of 5 yr.  At age 4 yr, hypermethioninemia was discovered.  Plasma methionine concns. have ranged from 508 to 1049 μmol/L.  Several known causes of hypermethioninemia were ruled out by studies of plasma metabolites: tyrosinemia type I by a normal plasma tyrosine and urine succinylacetone; cystathionine β-synthase deficiency by total homocysteine of 9.4-12.1 μmol/L; methionine adenosyltransferase I/III deficiency by S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) levels elevated to 1643-2222 nmol/L; and S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) hydrolase deficiency by normal AdoHcy levels.  A normal plasma N-methylglycine concn. in spite of elevated AdoMet strongly suggested GNMT deficiency.  Mol. genetic studies identified a missense mutation in the coding region of the boy's GNMT gene, which, upon expression, retained only barely detectable catalytic activity.  The mild hepatitis-like manifestations in this boy are similar to those in the only two previously reported children with GNMT deficiency, strengthening the likelihood of a causative assocn.  Although his deficiency of GNMT activity may well be more extreme, his metabolic abnormalities are not strikingly greater.  Also discussed is the metabolic role of GNMT; several addnl. metabolite abnormalities found in these patients; and remaining questions about human GNMT deficiency, such as the long-term prognosis, whether other individuals with this defect are currently going undetected, and means to search for such persons."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['hypermethioninemia', 'Mol. genetic studies', 'mild hepatitis-like manifestations', 'metabolic role of GNMT', 'human GNMT deficiency'], 'process': ['severe deficiency of glycine N-methyltransferase', 'GNMT', 'studies of plasma metabolites', 'tyrosinemia type', 'cystathionine β-synthase deficiency', 'methionine adenosyltransferase I/III deficiency', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'S-adenosylhomocysteine', 'hydrolase deficiency', 'GNMT deficiency', 'missense mutation', 'GNMT deficiency', 'deficiency of GNMT activity', 'metabolic abnormalities', 'metabolite abnormalities'], 'material': ['mildly elevated serum liver transaminases', 'Plasma methionine concns', 'total homocysteine', 'AdoMet', 'AdoHcy', 'AdoHcy', 'plasma N-methylglycine', 'AdoMet', "boy's GNMT gene", 'addnl']}], 'authors': 'Diebold Ruth; Schuster Joachim; Daschner Klaus; Binder Stefan', 'DOI': '10.1046/j.1365-2125.2003.01723.x', 'journal': 'British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology ', 'title': "Endogenous kynurenate controls the vulnerability of striatal neurons to quinolinate: Implications for Huntington's disease"}, {'document': ['In Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium, addition of the 4-amino-4-deoxy-l-arabinose (l-Ara4N) moiety to the phosphate group(s) of lipid A is required for resistance to polymyxin and cationic antimicrobial peptides.  We have proposed previously (Breazeale, S.  D., Ribeiro, A.  A., and Raetz, C.  R.  H. (2002) J.  Biol.  Chem. 277, 2886-2896) a pathway for l-Ara4N biosynthesis that begins with the ArnA-catalyzed C-4" oxidation and C-6" decarboxylation of UDP-glucuronic acid, followed by the C-4" transamination of the product to generate the novel sugar nucleotide UDP-l-Ara4N.  We now show that ArnB (PmrH) encodes the relevant aminotransferase.  ArnB was overexpressed using a T7lac promoter-driven construct and shown to catalyze the reversible transfer of the amino group from glutamate to the acceptor, uridine 5\'-(beta-l-threo-pentapyranosyl-4"-ulose diphosphate), the intermediate that is synthesized by ArnA from UDP-glucuronic acid.  A 1.7-mg sample of the putative UDP-l-Ara4N product generated in vitro was purified by ion exchange chromatography, and its structure was confirmed by 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy.  ArnB, which is a cytoplasmic protein, was purified to homogeneity from an overproducing strain of E. coli and shown to contain a pyridoxal phosphate cofactor, as judged by ultraviolet/visible spectrophotometry.  The pyridoxal phosphate was converted to the pyridoxamine form in the presence of excess glutamate.  A simple quantitative radiochemical assay was developed for ArnB, which can be used to assay the enzyme either in the forward or the reverse direction.  The enzyme is highly selective for glutamate as the amine donor, but the equilibrium constant in the direction of UDP-l-Ara4N formation is unfavorable (approximately 0.1).  ArnB is a member of a very large family of aminotransferases, but closely related ArnB orthologs are present only in those bacteria capable of synthesizing lipid A species modified with the l-Ara4N moiety.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['biosynthesis that', 'ArnA-catalyzed C-4" oxidation', 'C-6" decarboxylation', 'C-4" transamination', 'T7lac promoter-driven construct', 'reversible transfer of the amino group', 'ion exchange chromatography', '1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy', 'ultraviolet/visible spectrophotometry', 'assay the enzyme', 'UDP-l-Ara4N formation'], 'material': ['4-amino-4-deoxy-l-arabinose', 'l-Ara4N', 'phosphate group(s', 'lipid A', 'polymyxin and cationic antimicrobial peptides', 'l-Ara4N', 'UDP-glucuronic', 'sugar nucleotide', 'UDP-l-Ara4N.', 'ArnB', 'PmrH', 'aminotransferase', 'ArnB', 'glutamate', 'uridine', '-l-threo-pentapyranosyl-4"-ulose diphosphate', 'intermediate', 'ArnA', 'UDP-glucuronic', 'UDP-l-Ara4N product', 'ArnB', 'cytoplasmic protein', 'pyridoxal phosphate cofactor', 'pyridoxal phosphate', 'pyridoxamine form', 'excess glutamate', 'simple quantitative radiochemical assay', 'ArnB', 'glutamate', 'amine donor', 'ArnB', 'closely related', 'ArnB', 'bacteria', 'lipid A species', 'l-Ara4N moiety']}], 'authors': 'Mattace Raso Giuseppina; Simeoli Raffaele; Russo Roberto; Iacono Anna; Santoro Anna; Paciello Orlando; Ferrante Maria Carmela; Canani Roberto Berni; Calignano Antonio; Meli Rosaria', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Experimental gerontology ', 'title': 'Glutathione, glutathione-dependent enzymes and antioxidant status in erythrocytes from children treated with high-dose paracetamol'}, {'document': ["The enzymatic degradation of amino acids in cheese is believed to generate aroma compounds and therefore to be involved in the complex process of cheese flavor development.  In lactococci, transamination is the first step in the degradation of aromatic and branched-chain amino acids which are precursors of aroma compounds.  Here, the major aromatic amino acid aminotransferase of a Lactococcus lactis subsp. cremoris strain was purified and characterized.  The enzyme transaminates the aromatic amino acids, leucine, and methionine.  It uses the ketoacids corresponding to these amino acids and alpha-ketoglutarate as amino group acceptors.  In contrast to most bacterial aromatic aminotransferases, it does not act on aspartate and does not use oxaloacetate as second substrate.  It is essential for the transformation of aromatic amino acids to flavor compounds.  It is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme and is composed of two identical subunits of 43.5 kDa.  The activity of the enzyme is optimal between pH 6.5 and 8 and between 35 and 45 degrees C, but it is still active under cheese-ripening conditions."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['major aromatic amino acid aminotransferase'], 'process': ['enzymatic degradation', 'cheese flavor development', 'transamination', 'degradation', 'transformation of aromatic amino acids', 'cheese-ripening conditions'], 'material': ['amino acids', 'cheese', 'aroma compounds', 'aromatic and branched-chain amino acids', 'aroma compounds', 'Lactococcus lactis subsp.', 'aromatic amino acids', 'leucine', 'methionine', 'ketoacids', 'alpha-ketoglutarate', 'amino group acceptors', 'aspartate', 'oxaloacetate', 'flavor compounds', "pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme", 'two identical subunits']}], 'authors': 'Pegg A E; Lockwood D H; Williams-Ashman H G', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant physiology ', 'title': 'Caloric restriction increases gluconeogenic and transaminase enzyme activities in mouse liver'}, {'document': ['The activities of 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase, an enzyme of serine biosynthesis, and serine hydroxymethyltransferase, serine dehydratase and serine aminotransferase, which are competing enzymes of serine utilization, were assayed in human colon carcinomas from patients and in transplantable rat sarcomas.  Serine dehydratase and serine aminotransferase activities were absent, whereas 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase and serine hydroxymethyltransferase activities were markedly increased in both tumour types.  Serine hydroxymethyltransferase catalyses the formation of glycine and methylene tetrahydrofolate which are important precursors for nucleotide biosynthesis.  The observed enzymic imbalance in these tumours ensures that an increased capacity for the synthesis of serine is coupled to its utilisation for nucleotide biosynthesis as a part of the biochemical commitment to cellular replication in cancer cells.  That this pattern is found in sarcomas and carcinomas, and in tumours of human and rodent origin, signifies its universal importance for the biochemistry of the cancer cell and singles it out as a potential target site for anti-cancer chemotherapy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enzyme of serine biosynthesis', 'anti-cancer chemotherapy'], 'process': ['serine aminotransferase', 'serine utilization', 'serine aminotransferase activities', 'serine hydroxymethyltransferase activities', 'Serine hydroxymethyltransferase catalyses', 'nucleotide biosynthesis', 'enzymic imbalance', 'synthesis of serine', 'nucleotide biosynthesis', 'cellular replication'], 'material': ['3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase', 'serine hydroxymethyltransferase', 'serine dehydratase', 'human colon carcinomas', 'transplantable rat sarcomas', 'Serine dehydratase', '3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase', 'tumour', 'glycine', 'methylene tetrahydrofolate', 'cancer cells', 'sarcomas', 'tumours', 'cancer cell']}], 'authors': 'Pischke S; Stiefel P; Franz B; Bremer B; Suneetha P V; Heim A; Ganzenmueller T; Schlue J; Horn-Wichmann R; Raupach R; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'PloS one ', 'title': 'The branched-chain amino acid transaminase gene family in Arabidopsis encodes plastid and mitochondrial proteins'}, {'document': ['Standardized methods were detailed for clin. spectrophotometric assays of aspartate aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.1) (I) and of alanine transaminase (EC 2.6.1.2) (II).  For I assays, the activity was detd. by coupling the NADH plus oxalacetate produced with malate dehydrogenase and detg. the amt. of NADH oxidized.  In the procedure for II, the reaction products (pyruvate + NADH) were coupled to lactate dehydrogenase and the amt. of NADH oxidized detd.  Normal values in units/l. at 25° for I in serums of normal male and female subjects were 5-15 and 5-12, resp.  Corresponding values for II activity were 5-19 and 5-12, resp.  The day-to-day coeff. of variation between assays was ± 50%.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['clin. spectrophotometric assays'], 'process': ['alanine transaminase', 'I assays', 'II activity'], 'material': ['aspartate aminotransferase', 'NADH', 'oxalacetate', 'malate dehydrogenase', 'NADH', 'reaction products', 'pyruvate', 'NADH', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'amt.', 'NADH']}], 'authors': 'Brown J S; Aufauvre-Brown A; Brown J; Jennings J M; Arst H Jr; Holden D W', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Effects of sodium butyrate and its synthetic amide derivative on liver inflammation and glucose tolerance in an animal model of steatosis induced by high fat diet'}, {'document': ["The viviparous tsetse fly utilizes proline as a hemolymph-borne energy source.  In tsetse, biosynthesis of proline from alanine involves the enzyme alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGAT), which requires pyridoxal phosphate (vitamin B6) as a cofactor.  This vitamin can be synthesized by tsetse's obligate symbiont, Wigglesworthia glossinidia.  In this study, we examined the role of Wigglesworthia-produced vitamin B6 for maintenance of proline homeostasis, specifically during the energetically expensive lactation period of the tsetse's reproductive cycle.  We found that expression of agat, as well as genes involved in vitamin B6 metabolism in both host and symbiont, increases in lactating flies.  Removal of symbionts via antibiotic treatment of flies (aposymbiotic) led to hypoprolinemia, reduced levels of vitamin B6 in lactating females, and decreased fecundity.  Proline homeostasis and fecundity recovered partially when aposymbiotic tsetse were fed a diet supplemented with either yeast or Wigglesworthia extracts.  RNA interference-mediated knockdown of agat in wild-type flies reduced hemolymph proline levels to that of aposymbiotic females.  Aposymbiotic flies treated with agat short interfering RNA (siRNA) remained hypoprolinemic even upon dietary supplementation with microbial extracts or B vitamins.  Flies infected with parasitic African trypanosomes display lower hemolymph proline levels, suggesting that the reduced fecundity observed in parasitized flies could result from parasite interference with proline homeostasis.  This interference could be manifested by competition between tsetse and trypanosomes for vitamins, proline, or other factors involved in their synthesis.  Collectively, these results indicate that the presence of Wigglesworthia in tsetse is critical for the maintenance of proline homeostasis through vitamin B6 production."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['maintenance of proline homeostasis', 'Proline homeostasis', 'maintenance of proline homeostasis'], 'process': ['biosynthesis of proline from alanine', 'alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGAT', 'vitamin B6 metabolism', 'Removal of symbionts', 'antibiotic treatment', 'reduced levels of vitamin B6', 'RNA interference-mediated knockdown', 'reduced hemolymph proline levels', 'siRNA', 'dietary supplementation', 'parasite interference with proline homeostasis', 'vitamin B6 production'], 'material': ['viviparous tsetse fly', 'proline', 'hemolymph-borne energy source', 'tsetse', 'pyridoxal phosphate', 'vitamin B6', 'vitamin', "tsetse's obligate symbiont", 'Wigglesworthia glossinidia', 'Wigglesworthia-produced vitamin B6', 'agat', 'lactating flies', 'flies', 'aposymbiotic tsetse', 'diet supplemented', 'yeast', 'Wigglesworthia extracts', 'agat', 'wild-type flies', 'aposymbiotic females', 'Aposymbiotic flies', 'agat short interfering RNA', 'microbial extracts', 'B vitamins', 'Flies', 'parasitic African trypanosomes', 'hemolymph proline', 'tsetse', 'trypanosomes', 'vitamins', 'proline', 'tsetse']}], 'authors': 'Amacher D E', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'American journal of transplantation : official journal of the American Society of Transplantation and the American Society of Transplant Surgeons ', 'title': 'Concentrations of putrescine and polyamines and their enzymic synthesis during androgen-induced prostatic growth'}, {'document': ["BACKGROUND:  Pazopanib has shown clinical activity against multiple tumour types and is generally well tolerated.  However, isolated elevations in transaminases and bilirubin have been observed.  This study examined polymorphisms in molecules involved in pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic pathways of pazopanib and their association with hepatic dysfunction.  METHODS:  Twenty-eight polymorphisms in 11 genes were evaluated in pazopanib-treated renal cell carcinoma patients.  An exploratory analysis was conducted in 116 patients from a phase II study; a replication study was conducted in 130 patients from a phase III study.  RESULTS:  No polymorphisms were associated with alanine aminotransferase elevation.  The Gilbert's uridine-diphosphoglucuronate glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 (UGT1A1) TA-repeat polymorphism was significantly associated with pazopanib-induced hyperbilirubinemia in the phase II study.  This association was replicated in the phase III study (P<0.01).  Patients with TA6/TA6, TA6/TA7, and TA7/TA7 genotypes experienced median bilirubin increases of 0.31, 0.37, and 0.71 x upper limit of the normal range (ULN), respectively.  Of the 38 patients with hyperbilirubinemia (> or = 1.5 x ULN), 32 (84%) were either TA7 homozygotes (n=18) or TA7 heterozygotes (n=14).  For TA7 homozygotes, the odds ratio (95% CI) for developing hyperbilirubinemia was 13.1 (5.3-32.2) compared with other genotypes.  CONCLUSIONS:  The UGT1A1 polymorphism is frequently associated with pazopanib-induced hyperbilirubinemia.  These data suggest that some instances of isolated hyperbilirubinemia in pazopanib-treated patients are benign manifestations of Gilbert's syndrome, thus supporting continuation of pazopanib monotherapy in this setting."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic pathways', 'exploratory analysis', 'phase III study'], 'process': ['elevations in transaminases and bilirubin', 'hepatic dysfunction', 'alanine aminotransferase elevation', 'UGT1A1', 'hyperbilirubinemia', 'developing hyperbilirubinemia', 'UGT1A1 polymorphism', 'isolated hyperbilirubinemia', "Gilbert's syndrome", 'continuation of pazopanib monotherapy'], 'material': ['Pazopanib', 'polymorphisms in molecules', 'pazopanib', 'pazopanib-treated renal cell carcinoma patients', 'phase II study', 'replication study', "Gilbert's uridine-diphosphoglucuronate glucuronosyltransferase", 'pazopanib', 'Patients with', 'TA6/TA6', 'TA6', 'TA7', 'TA7', 'TA7', 'median bilirubin', 'TA7 homozygotes', 'TA7 heterozygotes', 'TA7 homozygotes', 'pazopanib']}], 'authors': 'Zaki A M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular microbiology ', 'title': ' Castration of adult rats resulted in marked decreases in the amounts of putrescine, spermidine and spermine in the ventral prostate gland.  Spermidine concentrations decline rapidly over the first 11 days after androgen withdrawal, reaching a value of only 12% of normal controls.  Spermine concentrations diminish more slowly, reaching 24% of normal within 11 days.  The spermidine/spermine molar ratio falls from 0.9 to 0.46 under these conditions.  Putrescine concentrations decrease by 70% at 7 days after castration and then remain constant for some days. 2.  After daily injections of testosterone propionate to rats castrated 7 days previously, prostatic spermidine and putrescine concentrations increase significantly within 24h; normal or even greater values are observed within 8 and 4 days respectively.  In contrast, the spermine concentration does not increase until 5 days after commencement of androgen treatment. 3.  The activities of two enzymes involved in polyamine biosynthesis (ornithine decarboxylase and a putrescine-activated S-adenosyl-l-methionine decarboxylase system) were greatly decreased soon after castration: after 7 days the respective values were 15% of normal for ornithine decarboxylase and 7% of normal for putrescine-dependent decarboxylation of S-adenosyl-l-methionine.  Injection of testosterone propionate into animals castrated 7 days previously induced a rapid increase in both enzymic activities: ornithine decarboxylase was doubled in 6h, and increased three- to four-fold within 48h, whereas the putrescine-dependent decarboxylation of S-adenosyl-l-methionine doubled in 3h and increased tenfold within 48h of commencement of daily androgen treatments. 4.  The activity of these enzyme systems was very low in the ventral prostates of hypophysectomized rats and was increased by administration of testosterone in a manner similar to that found in castrated rats. 5.  Alterations in the activity of two ventral-prostate enzymes involved in ornithine production (arginase) and utilization (ornithine-2-oxoglutarate transaminase) that result from changes in the androgenic status of rats are described. 6.  The findings presented suggest that the activities of ornithine decarboxylase and the putrescine-dependent S-adenosyl-l-methionine decarboxylase system, rather than ornithine concentrations, are rate-limiting for the formation of putrescine and polyamines in rat ventral prostate. 7.  The relation of polyamines to androgen-induced prostatic growth is discussed with particular reference to the biosynthesis of proteins and nucleic acids.'}, {'document': ['A review.  Purpose of review: Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP), a chaperone for the biosynthesis of apolipoprotein B lipoproteins and CD1d, is a therapeutic candidate to decrease plasma lipids and to diminish inflammation.  MTP inhibition increases plasma transaminases and tissue lipids, and therefore new approaches are needed to avoid them.  Recent findings: Inositol requiring enzyme 1β has been identified as a novel intestine-specific regulator of MTP.  A new function of MTP in cholesterol ester biosynthesis has been reported.  The importance of the phospholipid transfer activity of MTP in the lipidation of apolipoprotein B and CD1d has been indicated.  Diurnal variations in MTP expression and its induction by food availability have been obsd.  On the basis of these and other findings, we propose that upregulation of inositol requiring enzyme 1β, a combined redn. of cellular free cholesterol or triglyceride or both and MTP activity, specific inhibition of phospholipid or triglyceride transfer activities, and targeting of apolipoprotein B-MTP protein-protein interactions might be pursued to avoid some of the side effects assocd. with the inhibition of triglyceride transfer activity of MTP.  We further speculate that short-lived MTP antagonists may be useful in controlling plasma and tissue lipids and in avoiding steatosis.  Summary: We have highlighted the importance of addressing the causal relationship between MTP inhibition and aberrant elevations in plasma liver enzymes.  The proposed approaches may show that MTP targeting is a viable approach to lower plasma lipids.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['decrease plasma lipids', 'diminish inflammation', 'lipidation of apolipoprotein B and CD1d', 'specific inhibition of phospholipid or triglyceride transfer activities', 'controlling plasma and tissue lipids', 'avoiding steatosis', 'addressing the causal relationship', 'lower plasma lipids'], 'process': ['chaperone for the biosynthesis of apolipoprotein B lipoproteins and CD1d', 'MTP inhibition', 'Inositol requiring enzyme', 'cholesterol ester biosynthesis', 'phospholipid transfer activity', 'food availability', 'upregulation of inositol requiring enzyme', 'combined redn. of cellular free cholesterol', 'targeting of apolipoprotein B-MTP protein-protein interactions', 'inhibition of triglyceride transfer activity', 'MTP inhibition', 'elevations in plasma liver enzymes', 'MTP targeting'], 'material': ['Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'triglyceride', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'short-lived MTP antagonists']}], 'authors': 'Shindo M; Di Bisceglie A M; Cheung L; Shih J W; Cristiano K; Feinstone S M; Hoofnagle J H', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Regulatory toxicology and pharmacology : RTP ', 'title': 'Chronic hepatitis e in heart transplant recipients'}, {'document': ["Rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) take up iron using iron-chelating compounds known as mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs).  In the biosynthetic pathway of MAs, nicotianamine aminotransferase (NAAT) catalyses the key step from nicotianamine to the 3''-keto form.  In the present study, we identified six rice NAAT genes (OsNAAT1-6) by screening a cDNA library made from Fe-deficient rice roots and by searching databases.  Among the NAAT homologues, OsNAAT1 belongs to a subgroup containing barley functional NAAT (HvNAAT-A and HvNAAT-B) as well as a maize homologue cloned by cDNA library screening (ZmNAAT1).  Northern blot and RT-PCR analysis showed that OsNAAT1, but not OsNAAT2-6, was strongly up-regulated by Fe deficiency, both in roots and shoots.  The OsNAAT1 protein had NAAT enzyme activity in vitro, confirming that the OsNAAT1 gene encodes functional NAAT.  Promoter-GUS analysis revealed that OsNAAT1 was expressed in companion and pericycle cells adjacent to the protoxylem of Fe-sufficient roots.  In addition, expression was induced in all cells of Fe-deficient roots, with particularly strong GUS activity evident in the companion and pericycle cells.  OsNAAT1 expression was also observed in the companion cells of Fe-sufficient shoots, and was clearly induced in all the cells of Fe-deficient leaves.  These expression patterns highly resemble those of OsNAS1, OsNAS2 and OsDMAS1, the genes responsible for MAs biosynthesis for Fe acquisition.  These findings strongly suggest that rice synthesizes MAs in whole Fe-deficient roots to acquire Fe from the rhizosphere, and also in phloem cells to maintain metal homeostasis facilitated by MAs-mediated long-distance transport."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['take up iron', 'biosynthetic pathway', 'nicotianamine aminotransferase', 'searching databases', 'cDNA library screening', 'Northern blot', 'RT-PCR analysis', 'Fe deficiency', 'NAAT enzyme activity', 'Promoter-GUS analysis', 'GUS activity', 'OsNAAT1 expression', 'MAs biosynthesis', 'Fe acquisition', 'maintain metal homeostasis', 'MAs-mediated long-distance transport'], 'material': ['Rice plants', 'Oryza sativa L.', 'iron-chelating compounds', 'mugineic acid family phytosiderophores', 'MAs', 'MAs', 'NAAT', 'nicotianamine', 'rice NAAT genes', 'OsNAAT1', 'cDNA library', 'Fe-deficient rice roots', 'NAAT homologues', 'OsNAAT1', 'barley functional NAAT', 'HvNAAT', 'HvNAAT', 'maize homologue', 'ZmNAAT1', 'OsNAAT1', 'OsNAAT2', 'roots', 'shoots', 'OsNAAT1', 'OsNAAT1', 'NAAT', 'OsNAAT1', 'companion and pericycle cells', 'Fe-sufficient roots', 'Fe-deficient roots', 'companion and pericycle cells', 'companion cells', 'Fe-sufficient shoots', 'Fe-deficient leaves', 'OsNAS1', 'OsNAS2', 'OsDMAS1', 'rice', 'MAs', 'Fe-deficient roots', 'Fe', 'rhizosphere', 'phloem cells']}], 'authors': 'Danpure C J; Cooper P J; Wise P J; Jennings P R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene ', 'title': 'Signature-tagged and directed mutagenesis identify PABA synthetase as essential for Aspergillus fumigatus pathogenicity'}, {'document': ['The autosomal recessive disorder primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is caused by a deficiency of the liver-specific pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent enzyme alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT).  Numerous mutations and polymorphisms in the gene encoding AGT have been identified, but in only a few cases has the causal relationship between genotype and phenotype actually been demonstrated.  In this study, we have determined the effects of the most common naturally occurring amino acid substitutions (both normal polymorphisms and disease-causing mutations) on the properties, especially specific catalytic activity, of purified recombinant AGT.  The results presented in this paper show the following: 1) normal human His-tagged AGT can be expressed at high levels in Escherichia coli and purified in a correctly folded, dimerized and catalytically active state; 2) presence of the common P11L polymorphism decreases the specific activity of purified recombinant AGT by a factor of three; 3) AGTs containing four of the most common PH1-specific mutations (G41R, F152I, G170R, and I244T) are all soluble and catalytically active in the absence of the P11L polymorphism, but in its presence all lead to protein destabilization and aggregation into inclusion bodies; 4) naturally occurring and artificial amino acid substitutions that lead to peroxisome-to-mitochondrion AGT mistargeting in mammalian cells also lead to destabilization and aggregation in E. coli; and 5) the PH1-specific G82E mutation abolishes AGT catalytic activity by interfering with cofactor binding, as does the artificial K209R mutation at the putative site of cofactor Shiff base formation.  These results are discussed in the light of the high allelic frequency ( approximately 20%) of the P11L polymorphism and its importance in determining the phenotypic manifestations of mutations in PH1.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['autosomal recessive disorder', 'PH1', 'mutations and polymorphisms', 'causal relationship between genotype and phenotype actually been demonstrated', 'specific catalytic activity', 'AGT catalytic activity', 'cofactor binding'], 'process': ['primary hyperoxaluria', 'deficiency of the liver-specific pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent enzyme', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'naturally occurring amino acid substitutions', 'normal polymorphisms', 'protein destabilization', 'aggregation', 'naturally occurring and artificial amino acid substitutions', 'peroxisome-to-mitochondrion AGT mistargeting', 'aggregation', 'G82E mutation', 'K209R mutation', 'cofactor Shiff base formation', 'P11L polymorphism'], 'material': ['AGT', 'disease-causing mutations', 'purified recombinant AGT', 'normal human His-tagged AGT', 'purified recombinant AGT', 'AGTs']}], 'authors': 'Gstraunthaler, Gerhard; Pfaller, Walter; Kotanko, Peter', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Annals of internal medicine ', 'title': 'Serum transaminase elevations as indicators of hepatic injury following the administration of drugs'}, {'document': ['Nicotianamine aminotransferase (NAAT), the key enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs), catalyzes the amino transfer of nicotianamine (NA).  MAs are found only in graminaceous plants, although NA has been detected in every plant so far investigated.  Therefore, this amino transfer reaction is the first step in the unique biosynthesis of MAs that has evolved in graminaceous plants.  NAAT activity is dramatically induced by Fe deficiency and suppressed by Fe resupply.  Based on the protein sequence of NAAT purified from Fe-deficient barley (Hordeum vulgare) roots, two distinct cDNA clones encoding NAAT, naat-A and naat-B, were identified.  Their deduced amino acid sequences were homologous to several aminotransferases, and shared consensus sequences for the pyridoxal phosphate-binding site lysine residue and its surrounding residues.  The expression of both naat-A and naat-B is increased in Fe-deficient barley roots, while naat-B has a low level of constitutive expression in Fe-sufficient barley roots.  No detectable mRNA from either naat-A or naat-B was present in the leaves of either Fe-deficient or Fe-sufficient barley.  One genomic clone with a tandem array of naat-B and naat-A in this order was identified. naat-B and naat-A each have six introns at the same locations.  The isolation of NAAT genes will pave the way to understanding the mechanism of the response to Fe in graminaceous plants, and may lead to the development of cultivars tolerant to Fe deficiency that can grow in calcareous soils.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['understanding the mechanism of the response to Fe'], 'process': ['Nicotianamine aminotransferase', 'biosynthesis of mugineic acid family phytosiderophores', 'amino transfer', 'amino transfer reaction', 'Fe deficiency', 'Fe resupply', 'pyridoxal phosphate-binding site', 'isolation of NAAT genes', 'Fe deficiency'], 'material': ['NAAT', 'MAs', 'nicotianamine', 'NA', 'MAs', 'graminaceous plants', 'NA', 'plant', 'MAs', 'graminaceous plants', 'NAAT', 'NAAT', 'Fe-deficient barley', 'Hordeum vulgare) roots', 'two distinct cDNA clones', 'NAAT', 'naat', '-', 'naat', '-', 'aminotransferases', 'naat', '-', 'A', 'naat', '-', 'B', 'Fe-deficient barley roots', 'naat', '-', 'B', 'Fe-sufficient barley roots', 'mRNA', 'naat', '-', 'A', 'naat', '-', 'B', 'Fe-deficient', 'Fe-sufficient barley', 'genomic clone', 'naat', '-', 'B', 'naat', '-', 'A', 'naat', '-', 'B', 'naat', '-', 'A', 'graminaceous plants', 'calcareous soils']}], 'authors': 'Carsiotis M; Jones R F; Wesseling A C', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of cell biology ', 'title': 'Isolation of a flavivirus related to the tick-borne encephalitis complex from human cases in Saudi Arabia'}, {'document': ['The effect of cAMP on the intracellular levels of five enzymes concerned with the interconversion of glutamate and glutamine in E. coli has been examined.  Cyclic AMP added to the culture medium increases the levels of glutamate dehydrogenase (EC 1.4.1.4) and glutamine synthetase (EC 6.3.1.2); it decreases the levels of glutamate synthase (EC 1.4.1.X), and glutaminase A (EC 3.5.1.2).  Cyclic AMP did not affect the level of glutaminase B (EC 3.5.1.2).  These alterations in enzyme levels by cAMP require cyclic AMP receptor protein, since the levels of these enzymes were unchanged by cAMP in a mutant lacking this receptor.  Chloramphenicol also abolished the effects of cAMP, a result that implies protein synthesis is necessary for these changes in enzyme levels to occur.  The reciprocal effects of cAMP on the levels of these enzymes may play an important role in the cellular regulation of nitrogen metabolism.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['intracellular levels of five enzymes', 'interconversion of glutamate and glutamine', 'cellular regulation of nitrogen metabolism'], 'process': ['glutamate synthase', 'alterations in enzyme', 'cAMP', 'protein synthesis'], 'material': ['cAMP', 'Cyclic AMP', 'culture medium', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'glutamine synthetase', 'glutaminase', 'Cyclic AMP', 'glutaminase', 'cyclic AMP receptor protein', 'cAMP', 'Chloramphenicol', 'cAMP', 'cAMP']}], 'authors': 'Wallace B J; Pittard J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'American Journal of Physiology ', 'title': 'Decrease in serum hepatitis C viral RNA during alpha-interferon therapy for chronic hepatitis C'}, {'document': ['Serum γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), leucine aminopeptidase, alk.  phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, and aspartate aminotransferase activities were assayed in controls and in patients with liver, pancreatic, or bone diseases.  GGT activity was above normal in all forms of liver disease studied (viral hepatitis, cirrhosis, cholecystitis, liver carcinoma, pancreatic carcinoma, liver granuloma, and acute pancreatitis).  GGT more sensitively indicated hepatic disease than did alk. phosphatase, much more so than did leucine aminopeptidase.  GGT was disproportionately more active in relation to the transaminases in cases of intra- or extrahepatic biliary obstruction; the reverse was true in cases of viral hepatitis.  GGT activity was normal in children, adolescents, and pregnant women, and in casea of bone disease and renal failure.  Kinetic measurement of GGT activity offers a simple, sensitive, and direct means for distinguishing whether bone or liver is the source of increased serum alk. phosphatase activity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['distinguishing whether bone or liver is the source of increased serum alk. phosphatase activity'], 'process': ['GGT', 'alk.  ', 'GGT activity', 'liver disease', 'viral hepatitis', 'cirrhosis', 'cholecystitis', 'acute pancreatitis', 'GGT', 'hepatic disease', '. phosphatase', 'viral hepatitis', 'GGT activity', 'bone disease and renal failure', 'Kinetic measurement', 'GGT activity'], 'material': ['Serum γ-glutamyl', 'leucine aminopeptidase', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'aspartate aminotransferase activities', 'liver carcinoma', 'pancreatic carcinoma', 'liver granuloma', 'alk', 'leucine aminopeptidase', 'GGT']}], 'authors': 'Singh, Dharmendra; Singh, Ruchi; Singh, Pahup; Gupta, Radhey S.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'An enzyme trafficking defect in two patients with primary hyperoxaluria type 1: peroxisomal alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase rerouted to mitochondria'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Liver involvement in acute dengue infection is frequently observed and sometimes leads to acute liver failure, with fatal outcomes.  Many factors are thought to contribute to liver dysfunction, including hypoxic injury due to decreased perfusion, direct damage by the virus and immune mediated injury.  In this study, we sought to identify the pattern in the change in liver enzymes throughout the illness and its association with the degree of viraemia, onset and extent of plasma leakage and inflammatory mediators.  METHODS:  Serial daily blood samples were obtained from 55 adult patients with acute dengue from the time of admission to discharge and the liver function tests, viral loads and cytokines were assessed.  The onset and extent of fluid leakage was measured by daily ultrasound examinations and all clinical and laboratory features were serially recorded.  RESULTS:  Aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT) and gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) levels were elevated in patients with dengue infection throughout the illness.  The highest AST levels were seen on day 6 of illness and both AST and GGT levels were significantly higher in patients with severe dengue (SD), when compared to those with non-severe dengue (NSD) on day 5 and 6 of illness.  Three patients with SD had AST and ALT values of >1000/IU in the absence of any fluid leakage or a rise in the haematocrit (≥20 %).  The peak of the AST levels and the lowest serum albumin levels were seen 24 h before the maximum fluid leakage and 24 h after the peak in viraemia.  Both serum IL-10 and IL-17 levels were elevated during early illness and were significantly higher in those with SD when compared to NSD.  CONCLUSION:  Dengue associated liver injury appears to peak around day 6 and 7.  Therefore, liver function tests done at earlier dates might not reflect the extent of liver involvement in acute infection.  Since severe liver involvement can occur in the absence of fluid leakage, after the peak viraemia, and since it is associated with high IL-17 and IL-10 levels, possible immune mechanisms leading to hepatic damage should be investigated.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['acute liver failure', 'identify the pattern in the change in liver enzymes', 'Dengue associated liver injury', 'severe liver involvement', 'possible immune mechanisms'], 'process': ['Liver involvement', 'dengue infection', 'liver dysfunction', 'hypoxic injury', 'decreased perfusion', 'immune mediated injury', 'plasma leakage', 'acute dengue', 'liver function tests', 'fluid leakage', 'ultrasound examinations', 'AST', 'alanine transaminase', 'ALT', 'GGT', 'dengue infection', 'AST', 'AST', 'GGT', 'severe dengue', 'SD', 'severe dengue', 'NSD', 'SD', 'AST and ALT values', 'fluid leakage', 'rise in the haematocrit', 'AST', 'fluid leakage', 'SD', 'liver function tests', 'acute infection', 'fluid leakage', 'hepatic damage'], 'material': ['inflammatory mediators', 'Serial daily blood samples', 'clinical and laboratory features', 'Aspartate transaminase', 'gamma glutamyl transferase', 'NSD', 'IL-17']}], 'authors': 'Hudson Andre O; Singh Bijay K; Leustek Thomas; Gilvarg Charles', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Biochemical characterization of renal epithelial cell cultures (LLC-PK1 and MDCK)'}, {'document': ['Glutamate is present in the brain at an average concentration-typically 10-12 mM-far in excess of those of other amino acids.  In glutamate-containing vesicles in the brain, the concentration of glutamate may even exceed 100 mM.  Yet because glutamate is a major excitatory neurotransmitter, the concentration of this amino acid in the cerebral extracellular fluid must be kept low-typically μM.  The remarkable gradient of glutamate in the different cerebral compartments: vesicles > cytosol/mitochondria > extracellular fluid attests to the extraordinary effectiveness of glutamate transporters and the strict control of enzymes of glutamate catabolism and synthesis in well-defined cellular and subcellular compartments in the brain.  A major route for glutamate and ammonia removal is via the glutamine synthetase (glutamate ammonia ligase) reaction.  Glutamate is also removed by conversion to the inhibitory neurotransmitter γ-aminobutyrate (GABA) via the action of glutamate decarboxylase.  On the other hand, cerebral glutamate levels are maintained by the action of glutaminase and by various α-ketoglutarate-linked aminotransferases (especially aspartate aminotransferase and the mitochondrial and cytosolic forms of the branched-chain aminotransferases).  Although the glutamate dehydrogenase reaction is freely reversible, owing to rapid removal of ammonia as glutamine amide, the direction of the glutamate dehydrogenase reaction in the brain in vivo is mainly toward glutamate catabolism rather than toward the net synthesis of glutamate, even under hyperammonemia conditions.  During hyperammonemia, there is a large increase in cerebral glutamine content, but only small changes in the levels of glutamate and α-ketoglutarate.  Thus, the channeling of glutamate toward glutamine during hyperammonemia results in the net synthesis of 5-carbon units.  This increase in 5-carbon units is accomplished in part by the ammonia-induced stimulation of the anaplerotic enzyme pyruvate carboxylase.  Here, we suggest that glutamate may constitute a buffer or bulwark against changes in cerebral amine and ammonia nitrogen.  Although the glutamate transporters are briefly discussed, the major emphasis of the present review is on the enzymology contributing to the maintenance of glutamate levels under normal and hyperammonemic conditions.  Emphasis will also be placed on the central role of glutamate in the glutamine-glutamate and glutamine-GABA neurotransmitter cycles between neurons and astrocytes.  Finally, we provide a brief and selective discussion of neuropathology associated with altered cerebral glutamate levels.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['central role of glutamate'], 'process': ['glutamate transporters', 'glutamate catabolism and synthesis', 'glutamine synthetase', 'glutamate decarboxylase', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'glutamate dehydrogenase reaction', 'glutamate dehydrogenase reaction', 'glutamate catabolism', 'net synthesis of glutamate', 'hyperammonemia', 'hyperammonemia', 'net synthesis of 5-carbon units', 'increase in 5-carbon units', 'ammonia-induced stimulation', 'pyruvate carboxylase', 'glutamate transporters', 'altered cerebral glutamate levels'], 'material': ['Glutamate', 'glutamate-containing vesicles', 'glutamate', 'glutamate', 'excitatory neurotransmitter', 'cerebral extracellular fluid', 'glutamate', 'cerebral compartments', 'vesicles', 'cytosol', 'mitochondria', 'extracellular fluid', 'glutamate', 'ammonia', 'glutamate ammonia ligase', 'Glutamate', 'inhibitory neurotransmitter', 'γ-aminobutyrate', 'GABA', 'cerebral glutamate', 'glutaminase', 'α-ketoglutarate-linked aminotransferases', 'mitochondrial and cytosolic forms of the branched-chain aminotransferases', 'ammonia', 'glutamine amide', 'cerebral glutamine', 'glutamate', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'glutamine', 'anaplerotic enzyme', 'glutamate', 'cerebral amine', 'glutamine-glutamate and glutamine-GABA neurotransmitter', 'neurons and astrocytes']}], 'authors': 'Augoustides-Savvopoulou, P.; Luka, Z.; Karyda, S.; Stabler, S. P.; Allen, R. H.; Patsiaoura, K.; Wagner, C.; Mudd, S. H.', 'DOI': '10.1111/j.1742-7843.2009.00429.x', 'journal': 'Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology ', 'title': 'Cross-pathway regulation: histidine-mediated control of histidine, tryptophan, and arginine biosynthetic enzymes in Neurospora crassa'}, {'document': ['Chiral amines are indispensable building blocks in the prodn. of biol. active compds.  They are fundamental for the pharmaceutical industry, both as active mols. themselves and as chiral auxiliaries in asym. synthesis; however, the available synthetic strategies often present disadvantages.  ω-Transaminases (ω-TAs) appear as an attractive alternative by driving the stereoselective amination of prochiral ketones.  HEWT is a novel amine transaminase from the moderate halophilic bacterium, Halomonas elongata DSM 2581, which is highly (S)-selective, being able to fully convert (S)-1-phenylethylamine to acetophenone and showing no activity with the corresponding (R)-1-phenylethylamine.  HEWT has a broad substrate scope, active with a range of amino donors and acceptors, and naturally accepts isopropylamine (IPA) as amino donor in asym. synthesis providing a 41% conversion of pyruvate in 24 h at 37° starting with 1:1 molar ratio between the reagents.  HEWT also accepts ortho-xylylenediamine as amino donor in for amine synthesis, in particular, with benzaldehyde yielding high conversions between 90 and 95%.  The enzyme is also tolerant to the presence of cosolvents up to 20% making it a promising candidate for industrial applications.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn. of biol. active compds', 'driving the stereoselective amination of prochiral ketones', 'a promising candidate for', 'industrial applications'], 'process': ['pharmaceutical industry', '. synthesis', 'synthetic strategies', 'ω-Transaminases', 'amine transaminase', 'amine synthesis'], 'material': ['Chiral amines', 'chiral auxiliaries', 'ω-TAs', 'HEWT', 'moderate halophilic bacterium', 'Halomonas elongata', 'R)-1-phenylethylamine', 'HEWT', 'amino donors and acceptors', 'isopropylamine', 'IPA', 'amino donor', '41% conversion of', 'pyruvate', 'HEWT', 'ortho-xylylenediamine', 'amino donor', 'benzaldehyde']}], 'authors': 'Breazeale Steven D; Ribeiro Anthony A; Raetz Christian R H', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant physiology ', 'title': 'Regulator gene controlling enzymes concerned in tyrosine biosynthesis in Escherichia coli'}, {'document': ['γ-Aminobutyric acid transaminase (GABA-T) catalyzes the breakdown of GABA to succinic semialdehyde.  In this report, three GABA-T isoforms were identified in the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) plant.  The deduced amino acid sequences of the three isoforms are highly similar over most of their coding regions with the exception of their N-terminal regions.  Transient expression of the individual full-length GABA-T isoforms fused to the green fluorescent protein in tobacco suspension-cultured cells revealed their distinct subcellular localizations to the mitochondrion, plastid or cytosol, and that the specific targeting of the mitochondrion- and plastid-localized isoforms is mediated by their predicted N-terminal presequences.  Removal of the N-terminal targeting presequences from the mitochondrion and plastid GABA-T isoforms yielded good recovery of the sol. recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli when they were co-expressed with the GroES/EL mol. chaperone complex.  Activity assays indicated that all three recombinant isoforms possess both pyruvate- and glyoxylate-dependent GABA-T activities, although the mitochondrial enzyme has a specific activity that is significantly higher than that of its plastid and cytosolic counterparts.  Finally, differential expression patterns of the three GABA-T isoforms in reproductive tissues, but not vegetative tissues, suggest unique roles for each enzyme in developmental processes.  Overall, these findings, together with recent information about rice and pepper GABA-Ts, indicate that the subcellular distribution of GABA-T in the plant kingdom is highly variable.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['specific targeting', 'subcellular distribution of'], 'process': ['acid transaminase', '-', 'T', 'Transient expression', 'subcellular localizations', 'Removal of the N-terminal targeting presequences', 'Activity assays', 'differential expression patterns', 'developmental processes'], 'material': ['γ-Aminobutyric', 'GABA', 'GABA', 'succinic semialdehyde', 'GABA-T isoforms', 'tomato', 'Solanum lycopersicum L.', 'full-length GABA-T isoforms', 'green fluorescent protein', 'tobacco suspension-cultured cells', 'mitochondrion', 'plastid', 'cytosol', 'mitochondrion- and plastid-localized isoforms', 'N-terminal presequences', 'mitochondrion and plastid GABA-T isoforms', 'sol. recombinant proteins', 'GroES/EL mol. chaperone complex', 'pyruvate- and glyoxylate-dependent GABA-T activities', 'mitochondrial enzyme', 'plastid and cytosolic', 'GABA-T isoforms', 'reproductive tissues', 'vegetative tissues', 'rice and pepper GABA-Ts', 'GABA-T']}], 'authors': 'Yvon M; Thirouin S; Rijnen L; Fromentier D; Gripon J C', 'DOI': '10.1023/B:BOLI.0000009978.17777.33', 'journal': 'Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease ', 'title': 'Effects of embelin on lipid peroxidation and free radical scavenging activity against liver damage in rats'}, {'document': ['Nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL) and steatohepatitis (NASH) may accompany obesity, diabetes, parenteral nutrition, jejenuo-ileal bypass, and chronic inflammatory bowel disease.  Currently there is no FDA approved and effective therapy available.  We investigated the potential efficacy of those agents that stimulate glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis on the development of exptl. steatohepatitis.  Rats fed (ad libitum) amino acid based methionine-choline deficient (MCD) diet were further gavaged with (1) vehicle (MCD), (2) S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe), or (3) 2(RS)-n-propylthiazolidine-4(R)-carboxylic acid (PTCA).  Results: MCD diet significantly reduced hematocrit, and this abnormality improved in the treated groups (p < 0.01).  Serum transaminases were considerably elevated (AST: 5.8-fold; ALT: 3.22-fold) in MCD rats.  However, administration of GSH-enhancing agents significantly suppressed these abnormal enzyme activities.  MCD rats developed severe liver pathol. manifested by fatty degeneration, inflammation, and necrosis, which significantly improved with therapy.  Blood levels of GSH were significantly depleted in MCD rats but normalized in the treated groups.  Finally, RT-PCR measurements showed a significant upregulation of genes involved in tissue remodeling and fibrosis (matrix metalloproteinases, collagen-α1), suppressor of cytokines signaling 1, and the inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, and TGF-β) in the livers of rats fed MCD.  GSH-enhancing therapies significantly attenuated the expression of deleterious proinflammatory and fibrogenic genes in this dietary model.  This is the first report that oral administration of SAMe and PTCA provide protection against liver injury in this model and suggests therapeutic applications of these compds. in NASH patients.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['potential efficacy', 'tissue remodeling and fibrosis', 'therapeutic applications'], 'process': ['Nonalcoholic fatty liver', 'NAFL', 'steatohepatitis', 'NASH', 'obesity', 'diabetes', 'parenteral nutrition', 'stimulate glutathione', 'SAMe', 'PTCA', 'AST', 'ALT', 'administration of', 'fatty degeneration', 'RT-PCR measurements', 'upregulation of genes', 'GSH-enhancing therapies', 'dietary model', 'oral administration', 'liver injury'], 'material': ['jejenuo-ileal bypass', 'chronic inflammatory bowel disease', 'GSH', 'amino acid based methionine-choline deficient', 'MCD', 'vehicle', 'MCD', 'S-adenosylmethionine', '2(RS)-n-propylthiazolidine-4(R)-carboxylic acid', 'MCD diet', 'Serum transaminases', 'MCD rats', 'GSH-enhancing agents', 'MCD rats', 'severe liver pathol', 'Blood levels', 'GSH', 'MCD rats', 'matrix metalloproteinases', 'collagen-α1', 'suppressor of cytokines signaling 1', 'inflammatory cytokines', 'IL-1β', 'IL-6', 'TNF', 'TGF', 'β', 'MCD', 'SAMe', 'PTCA', 'NASH patients']}], 'authors': 'Snell K; Natsumeda Y; Eble J N; Glover J L; Weber G', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'An LL-diaminopimelate aminotransferase defines a novel variant of the lysine biosynthesis pathway in plants'}, {'document': ['We have examined the localization of the first two enzymes in the branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolic pathway: the branched-chain aminotransferase (BCAT) isozymes (mitochondrial BCATm and cytosolic BCATc) and the branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKD) enzyme complex.  Antibodies specific for BCATm or BCATc were used to immunolocalize the respective isozymes in cryosections of rat tissues.  BCATm was expressed in secretory epithelia throughout the digestive tract, with the most intense expression in the stomach.  BCATm was also strongly expressed in secretory cells of the exocrine pancreas, uterus, and testis, as well as in the transporting epithelium of convoluted tubules in kidney.  In muscle, BCATm was located in myofibrils.  Liver, as predicted, was not immunoreactive for BCATm.  Unexpectedly, BCATc was localized in elements of the autonomic innervation of the digestive tract, as well as in axons in the sciatic nerve.  The distributions of BCATc and BCATm did not overlap.  BCATm-expressing cells also expressed the second enzyme of the BCAA catabolic pathway, BCKD.  In selected monkey and human tissues examined by immunoblot and/or immunohistochemistry, BCATm and BCATc were distributed in patterns very similar to those found in the rat.  The results show that BCATm is in a position to regulate BCAA availability as protein precursors and anabolic signals in secretory portions of the digestive and other organ systems.  The unique expression of BCATc in neurons of the peripheral nervous system, without coexpression of BCKD, raises new questions about the physiological function of this BCAT isozyme.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['localization of the first two enzymes', 'branched-chain amino acid', 'BCAA) catabolic pathway', 'physiological function of this'], 'process': ['autonomic innervation', 'BCKD', 'immunoblot', 'regulate BCAA availability'], 'material': ['branched-chain aminotransferase', 'BCAT', 'mitochondrial BCATm', 'cytosolic BCATc', 'branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase', 'BCKD', 'Antibodies', 'BCATm', 'BCATc', 'BCATm', 'secretory epithelia', 'stomach', 'BCATm', 'secretory cells', 'uterus', 'testis', 'transporting epithelium of convoluted tubules', 'BCATm', 'myofibrils', 'Liver', 'BCATm', 'BCATc', 'sciatic nerve', 'BCATc', 'BCATm', 'BCATm-expressing cells', 'monkey and human tissues', 'BCATm', 'BCATc', 'BCATm', 'protein precursors', 'anabolic signals', 'secretory portions', 'BCATc', 'neurons', 'BCKD', 'BCAT isozyme']}], 'authors': 'Wilkinson, J. H.; Baron, D. N.; Moss, D. W.; Walker, P. G.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Applied and environmental microbiology ', 'title': 'Glycine N-methyltransferase deficiency: A new patient with a novel mutation'}, {'document': ['The regulation of glutamate dehydrogenase (EC 1.4.1.4), glutamine synthetase (EC 6.3.1.2), and glutamate synthase (EC 2.6.1.53) was examined for cultures of Salmonella typhimurium grown with various nitrogen and amino acid sources.  In contrast to the regulatory pattern observed in Klebsiella aerogenes, the glutamate dehydrogenase levels of S. typhimurium do not decrease when glutamine synthetase is derepressed during growth with limiting ammonia.  Thus, it appears that the S. typhimurium glutamine synthetase does not regulate the synthesis of glutamate dehydrogenase as reported for K. aerogenes.  The glutamate dehydrogenase activity does increase, however, during growth of a glutamate auxotroph with glutamate as a limiting amino acid source.  The regulation of glutamate synthase levels is complex with the enzyme activity decreasing during growth with glutamate as a nitrogen source, and during growth of auxotrophs with either glutamine or glutamate as limiting amino acids.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['regulation of', 'regulation of glutamate synthase'], 'process': ['glutamate dehydrogenase', 'glutamine synthetase', 'glutamate synthase', 'glutamine synthetase', 'glutamine synthetase', 'regulate the synthesis of glutamate dehydrogenase', 'glutamate dehydrogenase activity'], 'material': ['nitrogen and amino acid sources', 'Klebsiella', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'S. typhimurium', 'S. typhimurium', 'K. aerogenes', 'glutamate auxotroph', 'glutamate', 'limiting amino acid source', 'glutamate', 'nitrogen source', 'glutamine', 'glutamate', 'limiting amino']}], 'authors': 'Michalkova Veronika; Benoit Joshua B; Weiss Brian L; Attardo Geoffrey M; Aksoy Serap', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'British journal of cancer ', 'title': 'Origin of lipid A species modified with 4-amino-4-deoxy-L-arabinose in polymyxin-resistant mutants of Escherichia coli. An aminotransferase (ArnB) that generates UDP-4-deoxyl-L-arabinose'}, {'document': ['Targeting angiogenesis in glioblastoma (GBM) may improve patient outcome by normalizing tumor vasculature and improving delivery of chemotherapeutics and oxygen.  Consequently, concomitant administration of small mol. inhibitors of the VEGF pathway will likely have a pos. impact on chemoradiation treatment outcome.  We conducted a Phase I study of vatalanib, a small mol. inhibitor of VEGFR, PDGFR, and c-kit in patients with newly diagnosed GBM receiving radiation, temozolomide, and an enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drug in order to det. the MTD of vatalanib in this patient population.  We incorporated circulating biomarker and SNP analyses and pharmacokinetic studies.  Nineteen patients were enrolled and the MTD was not reached at the time of study termination.  Vatalanib was well tolerated with only 2 DLTs (thrombocytopenia and elevated transaminases).  Other grade 3/4 toxicities included leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, and hand-foot syndrome.  There were no wound-healing complications.  Of the 13 patients evaluable for a radiog. response, 2 had a partial response and 9 had stable disease.  Vatalanib significantly increased PlGF and sVEGFR1 in plasma circulation and decreased sVEGFR2 and sTie2.  Plasma collagen IV increased significantly by day 50 of treatment.  Vatalanib was well tolerated and this study demonstrates the safety of oral small mol. inhibitors in newly diagnosed GBM patients.  Blood biomarkers may be useful as pharmacodynamic markers of response to anti-angiogenic therapies.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['improve patient outcome', 'normalizing tumor vasculature', 'improving delivery of chemotherapeutics and oxygen', 'Phase I study', 'det. the MTD of vatalanib', 'pharmacodynamic markers of response to anti-angiogenic therapies'], 'process': ['Targeting angiogenesis', 'pharmacokinetic studies', 'MTD', 'neutropenia', 'radiog'], 'material': ['GBM', 'small mol. inhibitors of the VEGF pathway', 'vatalanib', 'small mol. inhibitor of VEGFR', 'PDGFR', 'c-kit', 'temozolomide', 'enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drug', 'circulating biomarker and SNP analyses', 'Vatalanib', 'stable disease', 'Vatalanib', 'PlGF', 'sVEGFR2', 'sTie2', 'Plasma collagen', 'Vatalanib', 'oral small mol. inhibitors', 'newly diagnosed GBM patients', 'Blood biomarkers']}], 'authors': 'Xu C-F; Reck B H; Xue Z; Huang L; Baker K L; Chen M; Chen E P; Ellens H E; Mooser V E; Cardon L R; et al', 'DOI': '10.1136/jcp.25.11.940', 'journal': 'Journal of Clinical Pathology ', 'title': 'An aminotransferase from Lactococcus lactis initiates conversion of amino acids to cheese flavor compounds'}, {'document': ['Following injury or infection, the liver releases acute-phase proteins (APP).  After a severe focal injury, this systemic response can be excessive and may lead to multiorgan dysfunction (MODS).  CINC-1 is a neutrophil chemoattractant, and we have now established that it also functions as an early APP after injury to the brain or to peripheral tissues.  After induction of a focal inflammatory lesion in the brain, there is rapid hepatic and serum CINC-1 induction, which is associated with increases in neutrophil numbers within the liver and within the circulation.  CINC-1-mediated recruitment of neutrophils to organs distant from the primary injury site may contribute to MODS.  Indeed, we found that enzyme markers of liver tissue injury are increased in the serum following generation of a focal inflammatory lesion in the brain.  Neutralization of CINC-1 in the periphery reversed brain-injury-induced neutrophil mobilization and inhibited recruitment of neutrophils to the brain and to the liver.  Thus, a significant component of the hepatic acute-phase response is the release of chemokines by the liver, which act to amplify the inflammatory response and modulate the subsequent leukocytosis and secondary tissue damage.  Hepatic CINC-1 synthesis following injury presents a novel focus for treatment of inflammation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['inhibited recruitment of neutrophils', 'treatment of inflammation'], 'process': ['severe focal injury', 'systemic response', 'multiorgan dysfunction', 'MODS', 'neutrophil chemoattractant', 'hepatic and serum CINC-1 induction', 'increases in neutrophil numbers', 'CINC-1-mediated recruitment of neutrophils', 'MODS', 'Neutralization', 'neutrophil mobilization', 'hepatic acute-phase response', 'release of chemokines', 'amplify the inflammatory response', 'Hepatic CINC-1 synthesis'], 'material': ['liver', 'acute-phase proteins', 'APP', 'CINC-1', 'peripheral tissues', 'focal inflammatory lesion', 'enzyme markers of liver tissue injury', 'focal inflammatory lesion', 'liver', 'liver']}], 'authors': 'Hussain, Mohammed Mahmood; Bakillah, Ahmed', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Applied and environmental microbiology ', 'title': 'Enzymic imbalance in serine metabolism in human colon carcinoma and rat sarcoma'}, {'document': ['The continuous intragastric in vivo enteral feeding model in the rat developed by Tsukamoto and French has been very useful; however, it requires surgical expertise.  Recently, we found that Kupffer cells isolated from rats treated only once with ethanol were sensitized to endotoxin 24 hours later.  Accordingly, these experiments were designed to determine if a new, simple animal model of ethanol hepatotoxicity could be developed based on Kupffer cell sensitization.  Female Wistar rats were given ethanol (5 g/kg body weight) once every 24 hours intragastrically.  Livers were stained with hematoxylin-eosin to assess steatosis, inflammation, and necrosis, and tissue triglycerides, serum transaminases, and plasma endotoxin were measured.  Kupffer cells were isolated 0 to 24 hours after one intragastric dose of ethanol daily, and intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) was measured using fura-2, while tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.  CD14 was evaluated by Western and Northern analysis.  Ethanol caused steatosis, necrosis, and inflammation in only a few weeks, and after 8 weeks, serum aspartate transaminase (AST) levels were doubled.  Values were similar to levels achieved in the enteral feeding model.  Triglycerides were also increased significantly by ethanol as expected, and endotoxin levels were increased to 70 to 80 pg/mL.  This latter increase was prevented (<20 pg/mL) by antibiotics implicating endotoxin.  In isolated Kupffer cells from untreated control rats, [Ca2+]i increased to 82 +/- 7 nmol/L after addition of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (100 ng/mL), and levels were elevated about twofold by ethanol given 24 hours earlier (174 +/- 15 nmol/L).  In addition, TNF-alpha production by Kupffer cells was increased fourfold in cells isolated from rats treated with ethanol 24 hours earlier.  Sterilization of the gut with antibiotics blocked all effects of ethanol on [Ca2+]i and TNF-alpha release completely.  Moreover, 4 weeks after ethanol, CD14 in Kupffer cells was elevated about twofold.  A new, simple chronic model of ethanol hepatotoxicity has been developed here based on sensitization of Kupffer cells to endotoxin.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['continuous intragastric in vivo enteral feeding model', 'new, simple chronic model of ethanol hepatotoxicity'], 'process': ['surgical expertise', 'sensitized', 'ethanol hepatotoxicity', 'Kupffer cell sensitization', 'steatosis', 'tumor necrosis factor', 'TNF', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay', 'Western and Northern analysis', 'steatosis', 'inflammation', 'AST', 'enteral feeding model', 'TNF-alpha production', 'Sterilization of the gut', 'TNF-alpha release', 'sensitization of Kupffer cells'], 'material': ['Kupffer cells', 'ethanol', 'Female Wistar rats', 'ethanol', 'Livers', 'serum transaminases', 'plasma endotoxin', 'Kupffer cells', 'ethanol', 'intracellular Ca2', 'fura-2', 'CD14', 'Ethanol', 'serum aspartate transaminase', 'Triglycerides', 'ethanol', 'endotoxin', 'antibiotics', 'endotoxin', 'Kupffer cells', '[Ca2+]i', 'lipopolysaccharide', 'LPS', 'ethanol', 'Kupffer cells', 'cells', 'ethanol', 'ethanol', 'ethanol', 'CD14', 'Kupffer cells', 'endotoxin']}], 'authors': 'Inoue Haruhiko; Takahashi Michiko; Kobayashi Takanori; Suzuki Motofumi; Nakanishi Hiromi; Mori Satoshi; Nishizawa Naoko K', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'British journal of cancer ', 'title': 'Standardization of clinical enzyme assays.  Reference method for aspartate and alanine transaminases'}, {'document': ['Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a cholestatic disease of the liver characterized by progressive fibrotic inflammation and obliteration of the extra- and/or intrahepatic bile ducts.  There is no effective therapy.  We, therefore, studied the safety and efficacy of ursodeoxycholic acid in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis with or without additional ulcerative colitis.  In a 1-year ursodeoxycholic acid treatment period, which preceded the controlled study period, ursodeoxycholic acid was well tolerated in 22 of 24 patients with ulcerative colitis and in all three patients without ulcerative colitis.  In two patients with ulcerative colitis the dose of 750 mg ursodeoxycholic acid/day led to diarrhea, but following reduction of the dose to 500 and 250 mg/day ursodeoxycholic acid was well tolerated.  After 1 year of ursodeoxycholic acid treatment, 20 patients were randomly assigned to receive either ursodeoxycholic acid 750 mg/day or placebo.  All of them finished a double-blind, placebo-controlled study period.  During ursodeoxycholic acid treatment, the liver enzymes improved markedly.  The difference in alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase between the placebo and ursodeoxycholic acid group was significant (p < 0.05).  Following ursodeoxycholic acid treatment, pruritus and fatigue improved in half of the patients but the difference between the placebo and ursodeoxycholic acid group was not significant.  According to the ethical guidelines, after 3 months of placebo treatment, the controlled study had to be discontinued because of a more than twofold increase of serum transaminases in 8/10 patients on placebo.  After the end of the controlled study, all patients were continuously treated with ursodeoxycholic acid for up to 4 years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['cholestatic disease of the liver', 'safety and efficacy'], 'process': ['Primary sclerosing cholangitis', 'fibrotic inflammation and obliteration of the extra- and/or intrahepatic bile ducts', 'diarrhea', 'reduction of the dose to 500 and 250 mg/day', 'acid treatment', 'ursodeoxycholic acid treatment', 'ursodeoxycholic acid treatment', 'placebo treatment'], 'material': ['ursodeoxycholic', 'primary sclerosing cholangitis', 'ursodeoxycholic acid', 'ursodeoxycholic', 'ursodeoxycholic', 'ursodeoxycholic', 'ursodeoxycholic', 'ursodeoxycholic', 'placebo', 'liver enzymes', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'alkaline phosphatase', 'gamma-glutamyltransferase', 'placebo', 'ursodeoxycholic', 'pruritus', 'placebo', 'ursodeoxycholic acid', 'controlled study', 'serum transaminases', 'ursodeoxycholic']}], 'authors': 'Lumb M J; Danpure C J', 'DOI': '10.1097/MOL.0b013e328312707c', 'journal': 'Current Opinion in Lipidology ', 'title': 'Vitamin B6 generated by obligate symbionts is critical for maintaining proline homeostasis and fecundity in tsetse flies'}, {'document': ['A 13.1-kb DNA fragment carrying Pseudomonas denitrificans cob genes has been sequenced.  The nucleotide sequence and genetic analysis revealed that this fragment contained five different cob genes named cobN to cobQ and cobW.  Based on the similarity of NH2-terminal sequences and molecular weights of the purified Cob proteins, CobQ was identified as cobyric acid synthase, CobP was identified as a bifunctional enzyme exhibiting both cobinamide kinase and cobinamide phosphate guanylyltransferase activities, and CobO was identified as cob(I)alamin adenosyltransferase.  CobN is proposed to play a role in cobalt insertion reactions.  Four other open reading frames were identified on the 13.1-kb fragment, but their chromosomal inactivation did not lead to a cobalamin-minus phenotype.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['nucleotide sequence'], 'process': ['cobinamide phosphate guanylyltransferase activities', 'cobalt insertion reactions', 'chromosomal inactivation'], 'material': ['13.1-kb DNA fragment', 'Pseudomonas denitrificans cob genes', 'cob genes', 'cobN', 'cobQ', 'cobW.', 'Cob proteins', 'CobQ', 'cobyric acid synthase', 'CobP', 'bifunctional enzyme', 'cobinamide kinase', 'CobO', 'cob(I)alamin adenosyltransferase', 'CobN', 'open reading frames', 'cobalamin-minus phenotype']}], 'authors': 'Takahashi M; Yamaguchi H; Nakanishi H; Shioiri T; Nishizawa N K; Mori S', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant molecular biology ', 'title': "Pazopanib-induced hyperbilirubinemia is associated with Gilbert's syndrome UGT1A1 polymorphism"}, {'document': ['The levels of the five enzymes required for isoleucine and valine synthesis were examined under several growth conditions in strain K-12 of Escherichia coli and mutants derived from it.  In strains with wild type repressibility, the same pattern of derepression was found on limiting isoleucine as is found to be constitutive in strain Tir-8, which has an altered isoleucine-activating enzyme.  Homoserine dehydrogenase, which is essential for the biosynthesis of threonine and is normally derepressed on limiting isoleucine or threonine, is also derepressed in strain Tir-8.  Threonine deaminase and homoserine dehydrogenase were partially repressed in strain Tir-8 by very high levels of isoleucine, but were not further derepressed over levels in minimal medium by limiting isoleucine.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['isoleucine and valine synthesis', 'biosynthesis of threonine'], 'process': ['Homoserine dehydrogenase', 'homoserine dehydrogenase'], 'material': ['levels of the five enzymes', 'strain K-12', 'mutants derived from it', 'limiting isoleucine', 'isoleucine-activating enzyme', 'threonine', 'Threonine deaminase', 'isoleucine', 'minimal medium']}], 'authors': 'Prusiner S; Miller R E; Valentine R C', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'New approaches to target microsomal triglyceride transfer protein'}, {'document': ['Kynurenine pathway (KP) is the primary path of tryptophan (Trp) catabolism in most mammalian cells.  The KP generates several bioactive catabolites, such as kynurenine (Kyn), kynurenic acid (KA), 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK), xanthurenic acid (XA), and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid (3-HAA).  Increased catabolite concentrations in serum are associated with several cardiovascular diseases (CVD), including heart disease, atherosclerosis, and endothelial dysfunction, as well as their risk factors, including hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and aging.  The first catabolic step in KP is primarily controlled by indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) and tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (TDO).  Following this first step, the KP has two major branches, one branch is mediated by kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO) and kynureninase (KYNU) and is responsible for the formation of 3-HK, 3-HAA, and quinolinic acid (QA); and another branch is controlled by kynurenine amino-transferase (KAT), which generates KA.  Uncontrolled Trp catabolism has been demonstrated in distinct CVD, thus, understanding the underlying mechanisms by which regulates KP enzyme expression and activity is paramount.  This review highlights the recent advances on the effect of KP enzyme expression and activity in different tissues on the pathological mechanisms of specific CVD, KP is an inflammatory sensor and modulator in the cardiovascular system, and KP catabolites act as the potential biomarkers for CVD initiation and progression.  Moreover, the biochemical features of critical KP enzymes and principles of enzyme inhibitor development are briefly summarized, as well as the therapeutic potential of KP enzyme inhibitors against CVD is briefly discussed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['understanding the underlying mechanisms by which regulates', 'therapeutic potential of'], 'process': ['Kynurenine pathway', 'KP', 'catabolism in', 'Increased catabolite concentrations', 'cardiovascular diseases', 'CVD', 'atherosclerosis', 'indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase', 'IDO', 'tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase', 'TDO', 'kynurenine 3-monooxygenase', 'kynurenine amino-transferase', 'KAT', 'Uncontrolled Trp catabolism', 'KP enzyme', 'KP enzyme'], 'material': ['tryptophan', 'Trp', 'KP', 'bioactive catabolites', 'kynurenine', 'Kyn', 'kynurenic', 'KA', '3-hydroxykynurenine', '3-HK', 'xanthurenic acid', 'XA', '3-hydroxyanthranilic', '3-HAA', 'heart', 'KP', 'KP', 'KMO', 'kynureninase', 'KYNU', '3-HK', '3-HAA', 'quinolinic', 'QA', 'KA', 'KP', 'inflammatory sensor and modulator in the cardiovascular system', 'KP catabolites', 'KP enzymes', 'KP enzyme inhibitors']}], 'authors': 'Lum, Gifford; Gambino, S. Raymond', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant physiology ', 'title': 'Identification and localisation of the rice nicotianamine aminotransferase gene OsNAAT1 expression suggests the site of phytosiderophore synthesis in rice'}, {'document': ['Atp6p is an essential subunit of the ATP synthase proton translocating domain, which is encoded by the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in yeast.  We have replaced the coding sequence of Atp6p gene with the non-respiratory genetic marker ARG8m.  Due to the presence of ARG8m, accumulation of rho-/rho0 petites issued from large deletions in mtDNA could be restricted to 20-30% by growing the atp6 mutant in media lacking arginine.  This moderate mtDNA instability created favorable conditions to investigate the consequences of a specific lack in Atp6p.  Interestingly, in addition to the expected loss of ATP synthase activity, the cytochrome c oxidase respiratory enzyme steady-state level was found to be extremely low (<5%) in the atp6 mutant.  We show that the cytochrome c oxidase-poor accumulation was caused by a failure in the synthesis of one of its mtDNA-encoded subunits, Cox1p, indicating that, in yeast mitochondria, Cox1p synthesis is a key target for cytochrome c oxidase abundance regulation in relation to the ATP synthase activity.  We provide direct evidence showing that in the absence of Atp6p the remaining subunits of the ATP synthase can still assemble.  Mitochondrial cristae were detected in the atp6 mutant, showing that neither Atp6p nor the ATP synthase activity is critical for their formation.  However, the atp6 mutant exhibited unusual mitochondrial structure and distribution anomalies, presumably caused by a strong delay in inner membrane fusion.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['ATP synthase proton translocating domain', 'cytochrome c oxidase'], 'process': ['mtDNA instability', 'ATP synthase activity', 'failure in the synthesis of one of its mtDNA-encoded subunits', 'Cox1p synthesis', 'abundance regulation', 'ATP synthase activity', 'ATP synthase', 'ATP synthase activity', 'inner membrane fusion'], 'material': ['Atp6p', 'mitochondrial DNA', 'mtDNA', 'Atp6p gene', 'non-respiratory genetic marker', 'ARG8', 'ARG8', 'm', 'Atp6p', 'cytochrome c oxidase respiratory enzyme', 'atp6', 'cytochrome c oxidase', 'Cox1p', 'yeast mitochondria', 'Atp6p', 'Mitochondrial cristae', 'atp6', 'Atp6p', 'atp6']}], 'authors': 'Fernando Samitha; Gomes Laksiri; Punchihewa Chameera T; Madusanka S D P; Malavige Gathsaurie Neelika; Wijewickrama Ananda; Dissanayake Harsha; Jeewandara Chandima; Peiris Hemantha; Ogg Graham S; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Functional synergism between the most common polymorphism in human alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase and four of the most common disease-causing mutations'}, {'document': ['A review.  Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARγ) is a nuclear transcription factor that comprises the primary mol. target for thiazolidinedione (TZD) insulin-sensitizing drugs.  While expressed in many tissues in humans, its abundant expression in adipose tissue is believed to be the focal point through which TZDs regulate genes involved in glucose and lipid metab. and via which these agents ultimately improve the hyperglycemia of type 2 diabetes.  However, TZDs exhibit many addnl. properties, not least an array of effects which suggest a broad attack on the inflammatory process.  Thus, TZDs have been shown to reduce plasma levels of the chemokine, monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), the anti-fibrinolytic protein, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), the endothelial cell adhesion mols., e-selectin and inter-cellular adhesion mol.-1 (ICAM-1), the leukocyte-activating mol., CD40L, and the tissue-remodeling enzyme, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9).  Further tangible evidence of a redn. by TZDs of systemic inflammation in patients with the classical metabolic syndrome stems from falls in the white blood cell count, P-selectin-pos. platelets and in the acute-phase inflammatory proteins, C-reactive protein, serum amyloid A and fibrinogen.  At the tissue level, TZDs improve vascular endothelial function, and reduce the rate of progression of intimal-medial thickening of the carotid artery and the microalbuminuria of type 2 diabetes.  Further, TZDs have been shown to be efficacious in inflammatory diseases as wide-ranging as psoriasis, ulcerative colitis and non-alc. steatohepatitis (NASH).  In the case of the latter, a broad spectrum of TZD-related properties is visible.  Here, these drugs improve insulin sensitivity for glucose metab., reduce hyperinsulinemia, hepatic steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis, and lower the circulating levels of liver transaminases (ALT, AST), alk. phosphatase and gamma glutamyl transferase.  These effects in humans are also well-supported by investigative animal and in vitro studies.  The ameliorative effects on liver fibrosis are of particular interest since they suggest that TZDs are able to activate a program of corrective tissue-remodeling.  The basis for this action may be partly an ability to inhibit matrix protein secretion by hepatic stellate cells.  An analogous action has also been seen in kidney mesangial cells.  In conclusion, TZDs are important new drugs, presently indicated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes but with a spectrum of properties which suggests their potential for treating a no. of degenerative inflammatory diseases, including NASH.  However, full-scale, long-term clin. trials are needed with TZDs to test their potential to treat NASH, not least because of the (hepatotoxic) legacy of the prototype TZD, troglitazone, but also in view of the escalating burden of liver disease which is accompanying the increasing global prevalence of clin. obesity and type 2 diabetes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['improve the hyperglycemia of type 2 diabetes', 'addnl. properties', 'investigative animal and in vitro studies', 'ameliorative effects on liver fibrosis', 'treatment of type 2 diabetes', 'treating a no. of degenerative inflammatory diseases', 'full-scale, long-term clin. trials', 'treat NASH', 'clin. obesity'], 'process': ['Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor', 'PPARγ', 'TZDs regulate genes involved in glucose and lipid metab', 'reduce plasma levels of the chemokine', 'tissue-remodeling enzyme', 'matrix metalloproteinase-9 (', 'systemic inflammation', 'falls in the white blood cell count', 'improve vascular endothelial function', 'reduce the rate of progression of intimal-medial thickening of the carotid artery', 'inflammatory diseases', 'non-alc. steatohepatitis', 'NASH', 'improve insulin sensitivity for glucose metab', 'reduce hyperinsulinemia', 'hepatic steatosis', 'lower the circulating levels of liver transaminases', 'alk. phosphatase', 'activate a program of corrective tissue-remodeling', 'inhibit matrix protein secretion', 'test their potential to'], 'material': ['nuclear transcription factor', 'TZD', 'insulin-sensitizing drugs', 'adipose tissue', 'TZDs', 'TZDs', 'monocyte chemotactic protein-1', 'MCP-1', 'anti-fibrinolytic protein', 'plasminogen activator inhibitor-1', 'PAI-1', 'endothelial cell adhesion mols', 'e-selectin', 'inter-cellular adhesion mol.-1', 'ICAM-1', 'leukocyte-activating mol', 'CD40L', 'MMP-9', 'P-selectin-pos', 'platelets', 'acute-phase inflammatory proteins', 'C-reactive', 'serum amyloid A', 'fibrinogen', 'TZDs', 'TZDs', 'psoriasis', 'TZD', 'ALT', 'AST', 'gamma glutamyl transferase', 'TZDs', 'hepatic stellate cells', 'kidney mesangial cells', 'TZDs', 'NASH', 'TZDs', 'TZD', 'troglitazone']}], 'authors': 'Cooper Arthur J L; Jeitner Thomas M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Clinical Chemistry ', 'title': 'Cloning two genes for nicotianamine aminotransferase, a critical enzyme in iron acquisition (Strategy II) in graminaceous plants'}, {'document': ['The activities of phosphatases and transaminases were studied in muscle and liver of the fresh water fish, Oreochromis mossambicus on exposure to different sublethal concns. (0.25, 0.5, 0.75 and 1 mgl-1) of cartap hydrochloride (insecticidal deriv. from marine polychaete) for 96 h.  There was an overall decrease in phosphatases and transaminases activity in muscle and liver of the fish subjected to cartap hydrochloride.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['activities of phosphatases and transaminases'], 'process': [], 'material': ['fresh water fish', 'Oreochromis mossambicus', 'sublethal concns', 'cartap', 'insecticidal deriv. from marine polychaete', 'cartap hydrochloride']}], 'authors': 'Cerioli, Lorenzo; Planchestainer, Matteo; Cassidy, Jennifer; Tessaro, Davide; Paradisi, Francesca', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'BMC infectious diseases ', 'title': "Adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate control of the enzymes of glutamine metabolism in Escherichia coli"}, {'document': ['The continuous intragastric enteral feeding protocol in the rat was a major development in alcohol-induced liver injury (ALI) research.  Much of what has been learned to date involves inhibitors or nutritional manipulations that may not be specific.  Knockout technology avoids these potential problems.  Therefore, we used long-term intragastric cannulation in mice to study early ALI.  Reactive oxygen species are involved in mechanisms of early ALI; however, their key source remains unclear.  Cytochrome P-450 (CYP)2E1 is induced predominantly in hepatocytes by ethanol and could be one source of reactive oxygen species leading to liver injury.  We aimed to determine if CYP2E1 was involved in ALI by adapting the enteral alcohol (EA) feeding model to CYP2E1 knockout (-/-) mice.  Female CYP2E1 wild-type (+/+) or -/- mice were given a high-fat liquid diet with either ethanol or isocaloric maltose-dextrin as control continuously for 4 wk.  All mice gained weight steadily over 4 wk, and there were no significant differences between groups.  There were also no differences in ethanol elimination rates between CYP2E1 +/+ and -/- mice after acute ethanol administration to naive mice or mice receiving EA for 4 wk.  However, EA stimulated rates 1.4-fold in both groups.  EA elevated serum aspartate aminotransferase levels threefold to similar levels over control in both CYP2E1 +/+ and -/- mice.  Liver histology was normal in control groups.  In contrast, mice given ethanol developed mild steatosis, slight inflammation, and necrosis; however, there were no differences between the CYP2E1 +/+ and -/- groups.  Chronic EA induced other CYP families (CYP3A, CYP2A12, CYP1A, and CYP2B) to the same extent in CYP2E1 +/+ and -/- mice.  Furthermore, POBN radical adducts were also similar in both groups.  Data presented here are consistent with the hypothesis that oxidants from CYP2E1 play only a small role in mechanisms of early ALI in mice.  Moreover, this new mouse model illustrates the utility of knockout technology in ALI research.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['study early ALI', 'ALI research'], 'process': ['intragastric enteral feeding protocol', 'alcohol-induced liver injury', 'ALI', 'inhibitors', 'nutritional manipulations', 'Knockout technology', 'ALI', 'liver injury', 'ALI', 'enteral alcohol', 'EA', 'ethanol elimination rates', 'acute ethanol administration', 'stimulated rates', 'elevated serum aspartate aminotransferase levels', 'Liver histology', 'mild steatosis', 'inflammation', 'Chronic EA', 'mouse model', 'knockout technology'], 'material': ['long-term intragastric cannulation', 'Reactive oxygen species', 'Cytochrome P-450 (', 'hepatocytes', 'ethanol', 'reactive oxygen species', 'CYP2E1', 'Female CYP2E1', 'a high-fat liquid diet', 'ethanol', 'isocaloric maltose', 'naive mice', 'EA', 'EA', 'EA', 'mice', 'ethanol', 'CYP2E1', 'CYP', 'CYP3A', 'CYP2A12', 'CYP1A', 'CYP2B', 'CYP2E1', 'POBN radical adducts', 'oxidants']}], 'authors': 'Clark, Shawn M.; Di Leo, Rosa; Van Cauwenberghe, Owen R.; Mullen, Robert T.; Shelp, Barry J.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Biomolecules ', 'title': 'Serum γ-glutamyl transpeptidase activity as an indicator of disease of liver, pancreas, or bone'}, {'document': ['Mutants lacking MalK, a subunit of the binding protein-dependent maltose-maltodextrin transport system, constitutively express the maltose genes.  A second site mutation in malI abolishes the constitutive expression.  The malI gene (at 36 min on the linkage map) codes for a typical repressor protein that is homologous to the Escherichia coli LacI, GalR, or CytR repressor (J.  Reidl, K.  Romisch, M.  Ehrmann, and W.  Boos, J.  Bacteriol. 171:4888-4899, 1989).  We now report that MalI regulates an adjacent and divergently oriented operon containing malX and malY.  MalX encodes a protein with a molecular weight of 56,654, and the deduced amino acid sequence of MalX exhibits 34.9% identity to the enzyme II of the phosphototransferase system for glucose (ptsG) and 32.1% identity to the enzyme II for N-acetylglucosamine (nagE).  When constitutively expressed, malX can complement a ptsG ptsM double mutant for growth on glucose.  Also, a delta malE malT(Con) strain that is unable to grow on maltose due to its maltose transport defect becomes Mal+ after introduction of malI::Tn10 and the plasmid carrying malX.  MalX-mediated transport of glucose and maltose is likely to occur by facilitated diffusion.  We conclude that malX encodes a phosphotransferase system enzyme II that can recognize glucose and maltose as substrates even though these sugars may not represent the natural substrates of the system.  The second gene in the operon, malY, encodes a protein of 43,500 daltons.  Its deduced amino acid sequence exhibits weak homology to aminotransferase sequences.  The presence of plasmid-encoded MalX alone was sufficient for complementing growth on glucose in a ptsM ptsG glk mutant, and the plasmid-encoded MalY alone was sufficient to abolish the constitutivity of the mal genes in a malK mutant.  The overexpression of malY in a strain that is wild type with respect to the maltose genes strongly interferes with growth on maltose.  This is not the case in a malT(Con) strain that expresses the mal genes constitutively.  We conclude that malY encodes an enzyme that degrades the inducer of the maltose system or prevents its synthesis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['regulates an adjacent and divergently oriented operon', 'maltose transport defect', 'mediated transport', 'facilitated diffusion', 'phosphotransferase system enzyme', 'complementing growth on glucose', 'malK mutant', 'overexpression of', 'synthesis'], 'material': ['MalK', 'maltose genes', 'malI', 'malI gene', 'repressor protein', 'Escherichia coli LacI', 'GalR', 'CytR repressor', 'MalI', 'malX', 'malY.', 'MalX', 'MalX', 'ptsG', 'N-acetylglucosamine', 'nagE', 'malX', 'ptsG ptsM double mutant', 'glucose', 'a delta malE malT(Con', 'maltose', 'Mal+', 'malI::Tn10 and', 'malX.', 'MalX', 'glucose', 'maltose', 'malX', 'glucose', 'maltose', 'sugars', 'malY', 'protein', 'plasmid-encoded', 'MalX', 'ptsM ptsG', 'plasmid-encoded', 'MalY', 'mal', 'malY', 'maltose genes', 'maltose', 'malT(Con)', 'mal', 'malY', 'enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Oz, Helieh S.; Im, Hee-Jeong; Chen, Theresa S.; de Villiers, Willem J. S.; McClain, Craig J.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.molcatb.2015.07.009', 'journal': 'Journal of Molecular Catalysis B: Enzymatic ', 'title': 'Patterns and causes of liver involvement in acute dengue infection'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND/AIMS:  Several pathways contribute to mechanisms by which ethanol induces oxidant stress.  While some studies support a role for cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1), others do not.  There is a need to develop oral models of significant ethanol-induced liver injury and to evaluate the possible role of CYP2E1 in ethanol actions in such models.  METHODS:  We evaluated chronic ethanol-induced liver injury, steatosis and oxidant stress in wild-type (WT) mice, CYP2E1 knockout (KO) mice and in humanized CYP2E1 knockin (KI) mice, where the human 2E1 was added back to mice deficient in the mouse 2E1.  WT mice and CYP2E1 KO and KI mice (both provided by Dr.  F.  Gonzalez, NCI) were fed a high-fat Lieber-DeCarli liquid diet for 3 weeks; pair-fed controls received dextrose.  RESULTS:  Ethanol produced fatty liver and oxidant stress in WT mice, but liver injury (transaminases, histopathology) was minimal.  Ethanol-induced steatosis and oxidant stress were blunted in the KO mice (no liver injury) but restored in the KI mice.  Significant liver injury was produced in the ethanol-fed KI mice with elevated transaminases and necrosis.  This liver injury in the KI mice was associated with elevated oxidant stress and elevated levels of the human CYP2E1 compared to levels of the mouse 2E1 in WT mice.  Activation of JNK was observed in the ethanol-fed KI mice compared to the other groups.  Fatty liver in WT and KI mice was associated with lower levels of lipolytic PPAR-α.  No such changes were found in the ethanol-fed KO mice.  CONCLUSIONS:  These results show that CYP2E1 plays a major role in ethanol-induced fatty liver and oxidant stress.  Restoring CYP2E1 in the CYP2E1 KO mice restores ethanol-induced fatty liver and oxidant stress.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['develop oral models of significant ethanol-induced liver injury', 'possible role of CYP2E1'], 'process': ['induces oxidant stress', 'actions in', 'steatosis', 'oxidant stress', 'oxidant stress', 'liver injury', 'transaminases', 'histopathology', 'induced steatosis', 'oxidant stress', 'liver injury', 'liver injury', 'liver injury', 'elevated oxidant stress', 'Activation of JNK', 'ethanol-induced fatty liver and oxidant stress', 'Restoring CYP2E1', 'oxidant stress'], 'material': ['ethanol', 'cytochrome P450', '2E1', 'CYP2E1', 'ethanol', 'wild-type', 'WT', 'CYP2E1', 'KO', 'humanized CYP2E1', 'KI) mice', 'human 2E1', 'CYP2E1', 'high-fat Lieber-DeCarli liquid diet', 'pair-fed controls', 'dextrose', 'Ethanol', 'fatty liver', 'Ethanol', 'KO mice', 'KI mice', 'ethanol', 'KI mice', 'human CYP2E1', 'ethanol-fed KI mice', 'Fatty liver', 'lower levels of lipolytic PPAR', 'ethanol', 'KO mice', 'CYP2E1', 'CYP2E1 KO mice', 'ethanol']}], 'authors': 'Sweatt Andrew J; Wood Mac; Suryawan Agus; Wallin Reidar; Willingham Mark C; Hutson Susan M', 'DOI': '10.1093/jxb/erp161', 'journal': 'Journal of Experimental Botany ', 'title': 'Central Role of Glutamate Metabolism in the Maintenance of Nitrogen Homeostasis in Normal and Hyperammonemic Brain'}, {'document': ['Anticancer therapy with epirubicin (EPI) results in acute hepatotoxicity, likely due to the generation of free radicals.  However, the oxidative status of rat liver cells and mitochondria after EPI toxicity has not been investigated.  In the present study, we first investigated the pro-oxidant effect of EPI on both hepatic cells and mitochondrial function.  Injection of EPI into rats at a dose of 9 mg/kg (cumulative dose in human chemotherapy), induced hepatic dysfunction, as revealed by a significant increase in serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminases (SGOT) and glutamate pyruvate transaminases (SGPT).  Oxidative stress in liver cells and mitochondria was provoked by EPI because a statistically significant redn. of catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and cytosolic glutathione (GSH) levels, and a significant increase in malondialdehyde (MDA) levels - an indicator of lipid peroxidn. that can perforate biol. membranes - were obsd.  Second, the protective effect of quercetin (QE) (0.33 mg/kg) against EPI-induced oxidative stress was also investigated.  Indeed, the pretreatment of rats with QE protected liver cells and mitochondria from oxidative stress.  This treatment prevented hepatic dysfunction by maintaining normal levels of serum transaminases following the inhibition of their hepatic leakage by preventing lipid peroxidn.  Thus, QE works through the prevention of cellular membrane perforation and the antioxidant defense system of mitochondria from liver cells, which represent compartments for the permanent prodn. of reactive oxygen species (ROS) through the respiratory chain.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['oxidative status', 'prevented hepatic dysfunction'], 'process': ['Anticancer therapy', 'acute hepatotoxicity', 'EPI toxicity', 'hepatic dysfunction', 'Oxidative stress', 'superoxide dismutase', 'lipid peroxidn', 'perforate biol. membranes', 'oxidative stress', 'oxidative stress', 'hepatic leakage', 'lipid peroxidn', 'prevention of', 'cellular membrane perforation', 'antioxidant defense system'], 'material': ['epirubicin', 'EPI', 'free radicals', 'liver cells', 'EPI', 'hepatic cells', 'EPI', 'serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminases', 'SGOT', 'glutamate pyruvate transaminases', 'SGPT', 'liver cells', 'EPI', 'catalase', 'CAT', 'SOD', 'cytosolic glutathione', 'GSH', 'malondialdehyde', 'MDA', 'quercetin', 'QE', 'EPI', 'QE', 'liver cells', 'QE', 'mitochondria', 'liver cells', 'reactive oxygen species', 'ROS']}], 'authors': 'Brenchley J E; Baker C A; Patil L G', 'DOI': '10.1002/jbt.20109', 'journal': 'Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology ', 'title': 'Characterization of a novel amine transaminase from Halomonas elongata'}, {'document': ['Fluctuations in the endogenous levels of kynurenic acid (KYNA), a potent alpha7 nicotinic and NMDA receptor antagonist, affect extracellular dopamine (DA) concentrations in the rat brain.  Moreover, reductions in KYNA levels increase the vulnerability of striatal neurons to NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxic insults.  We now assessed the role of a key KYNA-synthesizing enzyme, kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), in these processes in the rodent striatum, using KAT II KO mice-which have reduced KYNA levels-and the selective KAT II inhibitor (S)-4-(ethylsulfonyl)benzoylalanine (S-ESBA) as tools.  S-ESBA (applied by reverse dialysis) raised extracellular DA levels in the striatum of KYNA-deficient mice threefold and caused a much larger, 15-fold increase in wild-type mice.  In the rat striatum, S-ESBA produced a 35% reduction in extracellular KYNA, which was accompanied by a 270% increase in extracellular DA.  The latter effect was abolished by co-infusion of 100 nM KYNA.  Intrastriatal S-ESBA pre-treatment augmented the size of a striatal quinolinate lesion by 370%, and this potentiation was prevented by co-infusion of KYNA.  In separate animals, acute inhibition of KAT II reduced the de novo synthesis of KYNA during an early excitotoxic insult without enhancing the formation of the related neurotoxic metabolites 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinate.  Taken together, these results provide further support for the concept that KAT II is a critical determinant of functionally relevant KYNA fluctuations in the rodent striatum.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['functionally relevant KYNA fluctuations'], 'process': ['Fluctuations in the endogenous levels', 'reductions in KYNA', 'NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxic insults', 'KAT', 'reduced KYNA', 'reverse dialysis', 'raised extracellular DA levels', 'co-infusion', 'acute inhibition of KAT', 'reduced the de novo synthesis of KYNA'], 'material': ['kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'alpha7 nicotinic and NMDA receptor antagonist', 'extracellular dopamine', 'striatal neurons', 'KYNA-synthesizing enzyme', 'kynurenine aminotransferase', 'II', 'rodent striatum', 'KAT II KO mice', 'selective KAT II inhibitor', 'S-ESBA', 'S-ESBA', 'KYNA-deficient mice', 'rat striatum', 'S-ESBA', 'extracellular KYNA', 'extracellular DA', 'KYNA', 'Intrastriatal S-ESBA', 'KYNA', '3-hydroxykynurenine', 'quinolinate', 'KAT', 'II']}], 'authors': 'Gerstner, Elizabeth R.; Eichler, April F.; Plotkin, Scott R.; Drappatz, Jan; Doyle, Colin L.; Xu, Lei; Duda, Dan G.; Wen, Patrick Y.; Jain, Rakesh K.; Batchelor, Tracy T.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'American journal of physiology. Endocrinology and metabolism ', 'title': 'Subcellular localization and expression of multiple tomato γ-aminobutyrate transaminases that utilize both pyruvate and glyoxylate'}, {'document': ['Objective: This article reviews the pharmacol./pharmacokinetics and therapeutic efficacy of entecavir, which was approved on Mar. 29, 2005, for the management of adult patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection who have active viral replication and/or elevations in liver transaminases or signs of active liver disease on histol. examn.  Potential drug interactions and adverse events assocd. with the use of entecavir are also reviewed.  Methods: Relevant literature was identified through searches of MEDLINE (1996-July 2005) and BIOSIS (1993-July 2005).  Search terms included, but were not limited to, entecavir, BMS-200475, hepatitis B, pharmacol., pharmacokinetics, adverse events, and therapeutic use.  Further publications were identified from the ref. lists of the identified articles and through correspondence with the manufacturer of entecavir.  Results: Entecavir is highly selective for the HBV and inhibits all 3 steps of viral replication.  Results of early studies indicated a 6% resistance potential after 48 wk of therapy, although the potential may be higher in patients who harbor lamivudine-resistant mutants.  The approved dosage in treatment-naive patients is 0.5 mg/d PO, administered on an empty stomach; in patients who have failed lamivudine therapy or are known to harbor lamivudine-resistant mutants, the approved dosage is 1.0 mg/d PO.  The oral tablet and soln. can be used interchangeably.  Entecavir is well absorbed orally, achieving a dose-related Cmax between 0.6 and 1.5 h after administration.  It is metabolized to a small extent and is not a substrate for the cytochrome P 450 enzyme system.  The mean elimination t1/2 ranges from 77 to 149 h in patients with normal kidney function.  Entecavir is eliminated primarily in the urine via glomerular filtration and tubular secretion (62%-73%).  No dose adjustment appears to be necessary in patients with moderate to severe liver disease alone.  The potential for drug interactions with entecavir appears to be minimal, although medications that inhibit tubular secretion of drugs (eg, probenecid) may be expected to prolong serum concns. of entecavir.  One of the Phase III studies of entecavir found statistically significant benefits compared with lamivudine in terms of improvements in liver histol. after 48 wk of therapy (72% vs 62%, resp.; P < 0.009), the proportions of patients with undetectable HBV DNA titers on branched DNA signal amplification assay after 48 wk of therapy (91% vs 65%; P < 0.001), and the proportion with undetectable HBV DNA on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay after 48 wk of therapy (69% vs 38%; P < 0.001).  In another Phase III study, patients who had failed to respond to lamivudine therapy responded to entecavir: after 48 wk of therapy, significant differences between entecavir and lamivudine were seen in histol. improvement (55% vs 28%; P < 0.001) and the proportion of patients with undetectable HBV DNA on PCR assay (21% vs 1%; P < 0.001).  Adverse events assocd. with entecavir therapy were similar in character, severity, and incidence to those assocd. with placebo or lamivudine therapy.  The most common adverse events in clin. trials of entecavir were headache (17%-23% of patients), upper respiratory tract infection (18%-20%), cough (12%-15%), nasopharyngitis (9%-14%), fatigue (10%-13%), dizziness (9%), upper abdominal pain (9%-10%), and nausea (6%-8%).  Conclusions: Entecavir is a new antiviral agent for the management of chronic HBV infection.  Questions concerning the ideal length of therapy, long-term efficacy, and resistance rates over time await the results of ongoing clin. trials.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['reviews the pharmacol./pharmacokinetics and therapeutic efficacy', 'management of adult patients', 'Potential drug interactions', 'pharmacokinetics', 'therapeutic use', '6% resistance potential', 'improvements in liver histol', 'Phase III study', 'upper respiratory tract infection', 'upper abdominal pain', 'management of chronic HBV infection'], 'process': ['active viral replication', 'pharmacol', 'inhibits all 3 steps of viral replication', 'Cmax', 'metabolized', 'glomerular filtration and tubular secretion', 'dose adjustment', 'inhibit tubular secretion', 'branched DNA signal amplification assay', 'polymerase chain reaction', 'PCR', 'PCR assay', 'entecavir therapy', 'headache', 'cough', 'nasopharyngitis', 'fatigue', 'dizziness', 'nausea'], 'material': ['entecavir', 'chronic hepatitis B virus', 'HBV', 'elevations in liver transaminases', 'entecavir', 'Relevant literature', 'entecavir', 'hepatitis B', 'entecavir', 'Entecavir', 'HBV', 'lamivudine-resistant mutants', 'lamivudine-resistant mutants', 'oral tablet', 'soln', 'Entecavir', 'cytochrome P 450 enzyme system', 'Entecavir', 'entecavir', 'drugs', 'probenecid', 'Phase III studies', 'entecavir', 'lamivudine', 'patients who had failed to respond to lamivudine', 'entecavir', 'entecavir', 'lamivudine', 'histol', 'placebo', 'lamivudine', 'entecavir', 'Entecavir', 'antiviral agent']}], 'authors': 'Campbell Sandra J; Hughes Paula M; Iredale John P; Wilcockson David C; Waters Sara; Docagne Fabian; Perry V Hugh; Anthony Daniel C', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Glutathione-enhancing agents protect against steatohepatitis in a dietary model'}, {'document': ['Helicobacter pylori flagellin is heavily glycosylated with the novel sialic acid-like nonulosonate, pseudaminic acid (Pse).  The glycosylation process is essential for assembly of functional flagellar filaments and consequent bacterial motility.  Because motility is a key virulence factor for this and other important pathogens, the Pse biosynthetic pathway offers potential for novel therapeutic targets.  From recent NMR analyses, we determined that the conversion of UDP-alpha-D-Glc-NAc to the central intermediate in the pathway, UDP-4-amino-4,6-dideoxy-beta-L-AltNAc, proceeds by formation of UDP-2-acetamido-2,6-dideoxy-beta-L-arabino-4-hexulose by the dehydratase/epimerase PseB (HP0840) followed with amino transfer by the aminotransferase, PseC (HP0366).  The central role of PseC in the H. pylori Pse biosynthetic pathway prompted us to determine crystal structures of the native protein, its complexes with pyridoxal phosphate alone and in combination with the UDP-4-amino-4,6-dideoxy-beta-L-AltNAc product, the latter being converted to the external aldimine form in the active site of the enzyme.  In the binding site, the AltNAc sugar ring adopts a 4C1 chair conformation, which is different from the predominant 1C4 form found in solution.  The enzyme forms a homodimer where each monomer contributes to the active site, and these structures have permitted the identification of key residues involved in stabilization, and possibly catalysis, of the beta-L-arabino intermediate during the amino transfer reaction.  The essential role of Lys183 in the catalytic event was confirmed by site-directed mutagenesis.  This work presents for the first time a nucleotide-sugar aminotransferase co-crystallized with its natural ligand, and, in conjunction with the recent functional characterization of this enzyme, these results will assist in elucidating the aminotransferase reaction mechanism within the Pse biosynthetic pathway.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['consequent bacterial motility', 'H. pylori Pse biosynthetic pathway'], 'process': ['glycosylation process', 'assembly of functional flagellar filaments', 'motility', 'Pse biosynthetic pathway', 'NMR analyses', 'amino transfer', 'identification of key residues', 'stabilization', 'catalysis', 'amino transfer reaction', 'site-directed mutagenesis', 'aminotransferase reaction mechanism', 'Pse biosynthetic pathway'], 'material': ['Helicobacter pylori', 'flagellin', 'sialic acid-like nonulosonate', 'pseudaminic acid', 'Pse', 'UDP-alpha-D-Glc-NAc', 'central intermediate', 'UDP-4-amino-4,6-dideoxy-beta-L-AltNAc', 'UDP-2-acetamido-2,6-dideoxy-beta-L-arabino-4-hexulose', 'dehydratase/epimerase', 'PseB', 'aminotransferase', 'PseC', 'PseC', 'crystal structures', 'native protein', 'pyridoxal phosphate', 'UDP-4-amino-4,6-dideoxy-beta-L-AltNAc product', 'external aldimine form', 'enzyme', 'AltNAc sugar ring', '1C4 form', 'enzyme', 'beta-L-arabino intermediate', 'nucleotide-sugar aminotransferase']}], 'authors': 'Enomoto N; Yamashina S; Kono H; Schemmer P; Rivera C A; Enomoto A; Nishiura T; Nishimura T; Brenner D A; Thurman R G', 'DOI': '10.1007/s11060-010-0390-7', 'journal': 'Journal of Neuro-Oncology ', 'title': 'Branched-chain amino acid catabolism: unique segregation of pathway enzymes in organ systems and peripheral nerves'}, {'document': ["We report studies of a Greek boy of gypsy origin that show that he has severe deficiency of glycine N -methyltransferase (GNMT) activity due to apparent homozygosity for a novel mutation in the gene encoding this enzyme that changes asparagine-140 to serine.  At age 2 years he was found to have mildly elevated serum liver transaminases that have persisted to his present age of 5 years.  At age 4 years, hypermethioninaemia was discovered.  Plasma methionine concentrations have ranged from 508 to 1049 micro mol/L.  Several known causes of hypermethioninaemia were ruled out by studies of plasma metabolites: tyrosinaemia type I by a normal plasma tyrosine and urine succinylacetone; cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency by total homocysteine of 9.4-12.1 micro mol/L; methionine adenosyltransferase I/III deficiency by S -adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) levels elevated to 1643-2222 nmol/L; and S -adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) hydrolase deficiency by normal AdoHcy levels.  A normal plasma N -methylglycine concentration in spite of elevated AdoMet strongly suggested GNMT deficiency.  Molecular genetic studies identified a missense mutation in the coding region of the boy's GNMT gene, which, upon expression, retained only barely detectable catalytic activity.  The mild hepatitis-like manifestations in this boy are similar to those in the only two previously reported children with GNMT deficiency, strengthening the likelihood of a causative association.  Although his deficiency of GNMT activity may well be more extreme, his metabolic abnormalities are not strikingly greater.  Also discussed is the metabolic role of GNMT; several additional metabolite abnormalities found in these patients; and remaining questions about human GNMT deficiency, such as the long-term prognosis, whether other individuals with this defect are currently going undetected, and means to search for such persons."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['mild hepatitis-like manifestations', 'metabolic role of GNMT'], 'process': ['severe deficiency of glycine N -methyltransferase', 'GNMT', 'hypermethioninaemia', 'studies of plasma metabolites', 'cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency', 'methionine adenosyltransferase I/III deficiency', 'S -adenosylmethionine', 'S -adenosylhomocysteine (', 'hydrolase deficiency', 'GNMT deficiency', 'Molecular genetic studies', 'missense mutation', 'GNMT deficiency', 'deficiency of GNMT activity', 'metabolic abnormalities', 'metabolite abnormalities', 'human GNMT deficiency'], 'material': ['mildly elevated serum liver transaminases', 'Plasma methionine', 'tyrosinaemia', 'total homocysteine', 'AdoMet', 'AdoHcy', 'AdoHcy', 'plasma N -methylglycine', 'AdoMet', "boy's GNMT gene"]}], 'authors': 'Stiehl A; Walker S; Stiehl L; Rudolph G; Hofmann W J; Theilmann L', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology ', 'title': 'Regulation of the ammonia assimilatory enzymes in Salmonella typhimurium'}, {'document': ["During the biosynthesis of the vancomycin-class antibiotic chloroeremomycin, TDP-epi-vancosaminyltransferase GtfA catalyzes the attachment of 4-epi-vancosamine from a TDP donor to the beta-OHTyr-6 of the aglycone cosubstrate.  Glycosyltransferases from this pathway are potential tools for the combinatorial design of new antibiotics that are effective against vancomycin-resistant bacterial strains.  These enzymes are members of the GT-B glycosyltransferase superfamily, which share a homologous bidomain topology.  We present the 2.8-A crystal structures of GtfA complexes with vancomycin and the natural monoglycosylated peptide substrate, representing the first direct observation of acceptor substrate binding among closely related glycosyltransferases.  The acceptor substrates bind to the N-terminal domain such that the aglycone substrate's reactive hydroxyl group hydrogen bonds to the side chains of Ser-10 and Asp-13, thus identifying these as residues of potential catalytic importance.  As well as an open form of the enzyme, the crystal structures have revealed a closed form in which a TDP ligand is bound at a donor substrate site in the interdomain cleft, thereby illustrating not only binding interactions, but the conformational changes in the enzyme that accompany substrate binding."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['combinatorial design of new antibiotics'], 'process': ['acceptor substrate binding', 'binding interactions', 'conformational changes', 'substrate binding'], 'material': ['vancomycin-class antibiotic', 'chloroeremomycin', 'TDP-epi-vancosaminyltransferase GtfA', '4-epi-vancosamine', 'TDP donor', 'beta-OHTyr-6 of the aglycone cosubstrate', 'Glycosyltransferases', 'GT-B glycosyltransferase superfamily', '2.8-A crystal structures', 'GtfA', 'vancomycin', 'natural monoglycosylated peptide substrate', 'closely related', 'glycosyltransferases', 'acceptor substrates', 'N-terminal domain', 'aglycone substrate', 'enzyme', 'crystal structures', 'TDP ligand', 'donor substrate site in the interdomain cleft', 'enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Crouzet J; Levy-Schil S; Cameron B; Cauchois L; Rigault S; Rouyez M C; Blanche F; Debussche L; Thibaut D', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'Phase I trial with biomarker studies of vatalanib (PTK787) in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma treated with enzyme inducing anti-epileptic drugs and standard radiation and temozolomide'}, {'document': ['A DNA fragment which carries the his3 gene of Schizosaccharomyces pombe has been isolated and characterized for use as a selectable marker in transformations.  The his3 gene encodes the imidazole acetol phosphate transaminase enzyme (E.C.2.6.1.9), which is responsible for converting imidazole acetol-P to histidinol-P in step 8 of histidine biosynthesis.  The nucleotide sequences of a 2196 bp gene fragment and a corresponding cDNA clone were determined.  Three intron sequences punctuate the 1451 bp coding region which generates a predicted polypeptide of 384 amino acids with a molecular mass of 42736 daltons.  Northern analysis of his3 mRNAs indicates that the transcript is approximately 1.6 kb in size.  Steady-state levels are down-regulated by nitrogen limitation but are unaffected by histidine starvation.  The deduced amino acid sequence was compared to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae HIS5, Escherichia coli HisC, and Salmonella typhimurium HisC proteins, all of which are imidazole acetol phosphate transaminases.  The S. pombe his3 protein was 49.5% identical to the S. cerevisiae HIS5 protein and 21.5% identity was found when all four proteins were compared.  The shuttle vector pBG1 was constructed by subcloning the smallest functional region of his3 and the S. pombe ars1 sequence into pUC18 for use in transformation of His3--S. pombe strains.  New S. pombe strains in which the his3 gene was deleted have also been constructed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['converting imidazole acetol-P to histidinol-P', 'histidine biosynthesis', 'intron sequences', 'Northern analysis', 'nitrogen limitation', 'histidine starvation', 'subcloning the smallest functional region', 'transformation of His3--S. pombe strains'], 'material': ['DNA fragment', 'his3 gene', 'Schizosaccharomyces pombe', 'selectable marker', 'his3 gene', 'imidazole acetol phosphate transaminase enzyme', '2196 bp gene fragment', 'cDNA clone', '1451 bp coding region', 'predicted polypeptide', '384 amino acids', 'his3 mRNAs', 'deduced amino acid sequence', 'Saccharomyces cerevisiae', 'HIS5', 'Escherichia coli HisC', 'Salmonella typhimurium HisC proteins', 'imidazole acetol phosphate transaminases', 'S. pombe his3 protein', 'S. cerevisiae HIS5 protein', 'shuttle vector', 'pBG1', 'his3', 'S. pombe ars1', 'pUC18', 'S. pombe strains', 'his3 gene']}], 'authors': 'Dwyer S B; Umbarger H E', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of hepatology ', 'title': 'CINC-1 is an acute-phase protein induced by focal brain injury causing leukocyte mobilization and liver injury'}, {'document': ['In humans, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) depletion syndromes are a group of genetically and clin. heterogeneous autosomal recessive disorders that arise as a consequence of defects in mtDNA replication or nucleotide synthesis.  Clin. manifestations are variable and include myopathic, encephalomyopathic, neurogastrointestinal or hepatocerebral phenotypes.  Through clin. exome sequencing, we identified a homozygous missense variant (c.533C > T; p.Pro178Leu) in mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) segregating in a consanguineous kindred of Colombian-Basque descent in which two siblings presented with IUGR, elevated transaminases, conjugated hyperbilirubinemia and hypoglycemia with progression to liver failure and death in early infancy.  Results of the liver biopsy in the proband revealed cirrhosis, micro- and macrovesicular steatosis, cholestasis and mitochondrial pleomorphism.  Electron microscopy of muscle revealed abnormal mitochondrial morphol. and distribution while enzyme histochem. was underwhelming.  Electron transport chain testing in muscle showed increased citrate synthase activity suggesting mitochondrial proliferation, while respiratory chain activities were at the lower end of normal.  MtDNA content was reduced in liver and muscle (11% and 21% of normal controls resp.).  While Tfam mRNA expression was upregulated in primary fibroblasts, Tfam protein level was significantly reduced.  Furthermore, functional investigations of the mitochondria revealed reduced basal respiration and spare respiratory capacity, decreased mtDNA copy no. and markedly reduced nucleoids.  TFAM is essential for transcription, replication and packaging of mtDNA into nucleoids.  Tfam knockout mice display embryonic lethality secondary to severe mtDNA depletion.  In this report, for the first time, we assoc. a homozygous variant in TFAM with a novel mtDNA depletion syndrome.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) depletion syndromes', 'Clin. manifestations', 'novel mtDNA depletion syndrome'], 'process': ['defects in mtDNA replication', 'nucleotide synthesis', 'clin. exome sequencing', 'IUGR', 'elevated transaminases', 'conjugated hyperbilirubinemia', 'hypoglycemia', 'liver failure', 'liver biopsy', 'cirrhosis', 'cholestasis', 'mitochondrial pleomorphism', 'abnormal mitochondrial morphol. and distribution', 'enzyme histochem.', 'Electron transport chain testing', 'increased citrate synthase activity', 'mitochondrial proliferation', 'respiratory chain activities', 'mRNA expression', 'Tfam protein level', 'functional investigations', 'reduced basal respiration', 'decreased mtDNA copy no', 'transcription', 'replication', 'packaging of mtDNA into nucleoids', 'mtDNA depletion'], 'material': ['homozygous missense variant', 'mitochondrial transcription factor', 'TFAM', 'consanguineous kindred', 'two siblings presented with', 'Electron microscopy', 'MtDNA', 'liver', 'muscle', 'Tfam', 'primary fibroblasts', 'TFAM', 'Tfam', 'homozygous variant', 'TFAM']}], 'authors': 'Song Ping; Ramprasath Tharmarajan; Wang Huan; Zou Ming-Hui', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Development of a new, simple rat model of early alcohol-induced liver injury based on sensitization of Kupffer cells'}, {'document': ['Mutations of the isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) gene are among the most prevalent in low-grade glioma and secondary glioblastoma, represent an early pathogenic event, and are associated with epigenetically driven modulations of metabolism.  Of particular interest is the recently uncovered relationship between the IDH1 mutation and decreased activity of the branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 (BCAT1) enzyme.  Noninvasive imaging methods that can assess BCAT1 activity could therefore improve detection of mutant IDH1 tumors and aid in developing and monitoring new targeted therapies.  BCAT1 catalyzes the transamination of branched-chain amino acids while converting α-ketoglutarate (α-KG) to glutamate.  Our goal was to use (13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy to probe the conversion of hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] α-KG to hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate as a readout of BCAT1 activity.  We investigated two isogenic glioblastoma lines that differed only in their IDH1 status and performed experiments in live cells and in vivo in rat orthotopic tumors.  Following injection of hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] α-KG, hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate production was detected both in cells and in vivo, and the level of hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate was significantly lower in mutant IDH1 cells and tumors compared with their IDH1-wild-type counterparts.  Importantly however, in our cells the observed drop in hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate was likely mediated not only by a drop in BCAT1 activity, but also by reductions in aspartate transaminase and glutamate dehydrogenase activities, suggesting additional metabolic reprogramming at least in our model.  Hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate could thus inform on multiple mutant IDH1-associated metabolic events that mediate reduced glutamate production.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['improve detection of mutant IDH1 tumors', 'developing and monitoring new targeted therapies'], 'process': ['Mutations of the', 'isocitrate dehydrogenase', 'IDH1', 'epigenetically driven modulations of metabolism', 'IDH1 mutation', 'decreased activity of the', 'Noninvasive imaging methods', 'transamination of branched-chain amino acids', 'hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate production', 'reductions in aspartate transaminase', 'metabolic reprogramming', 'reduced glutamate production'], 'material': ['low-grade glioma', 'secondary glioblastoma', 'branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1', 'BCAT1', 'BCAT1', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'α-KG', 'glutamate', '(13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy', 'hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] α-KG', 'BCAT1', 'two isogenic glioblastoma lines', 'live cells', 'rat orthotopic tumors', 'hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] α', 'hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate', 'mutant IDH1 cells', 'IDH1-wild-type counterparts', 'cells', 'hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate', 'BCAT1', 'Hyperpolarized [1-(13)C] glutamate']}], 'authors': 'Rak Malgorzata; Tetaud Emmanuel; Godard Francois; Sagot Isabelle; Salin Benedicte; Duvezin-Caubet Stephane; Slonimski Piotr P; Rytka Joanna; di Rago Jean-Paul', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Effect of ursodeoxycholic acid on liver and bile duct disease in primary sclerosing cholangitis. A 3-year pilot study with a placebo-controlled study period'}, {'document': ['In Arabidopsis thaliana, transamination steps in the leucine biosynthetic and catabolic pathways and the methionine (Met) chain elongation cycle of aliphatic glucosinolate formation are catalyzed by branched-chain aminotransferases (BCATs) that are encoded by a small gene family of six members.  One member of this family, the plastid-located BCAT3, was shown to participate in both amino acid and glucosinolate metabolism.  In vitro activity tests with the recombinant protein identified highest activities with the 2-oxo acids of leucine, isoleucine, and valine, but also revealed substantial conversion of intermediates of the Met chain elongation pathway.  Metabolite profiling of bcat3-1 single and bcat3-1/bcat4-2 double knockout mutants showed significant alterations in the profiles of both amino acids and glucosinolates.  The changes in glucosinolate proportions suggest that BCAT3 most likely catalyzes the terminal steps in the chain elongation process leading to short-chain glucosinolates: the conversion of 5-methylthiopentyl-2-oxo and 6-methylthiohexyl-2-oxo acids to their respective Met derivatives, homomethionine and dihomo-methionine, respectively.  The enzyme can also at least partially compensate for the loss of BCAT4, which catalyzes the initial step of Met chain elongation by converting Met to 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoate.  Our results show the interdependence of amino acid and glucosinolate metabolism and demonstrate that a single enzyme plays a role in both processes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['leucine biosynthetic and catabolic pathways', 'amino acid and glucosinolate metabolism'], 'process': ['transamination steps', 'methionine', 'chain elongation cycle', 'aliphatic glucosinolate formation', 'branched-chain aminotransferases', 'In vitro activity tests', 'conversion of intermediates of the', 'Met chain elongation pathway', 'Metabolite profiling', 'chain elongation process', 'Met chain elongation'], 'material': ['Met', 'BCATs', 'a small gene family', 'plastid-located BCAT3', 'recombinant protein', '2-oxo acids', 'leucine', 'isoleucine', 'valine', 'bcat3', 'bcat3', '-', 'bcat4', 'amino acids', 'glucosinolate', 'BCAT3', 'short-chain glucosinolates', '5-methylthiopentyl-2-oxo', '6-methylthiohexyl-2-oxo', 'Met derivatives', 'homomethionine', 'dihomo', 'methionine', 'BCAT4', 'Met', '4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoate']}], 'authors': 'Buckingham, Robin E.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cellular and molecular life sciences : CMLS ', 'title': 'Nucleotide sequence and genetic analysis of a 13.1-kilobase-pair Pseudomonas denitrificans DNA fragment containing five cob genes and identification of structural genes encoding Cob(I)alamin adenosyltransferase, cobyric acid synthase, and bifunctional cobinamide kinase-cobinamide phosphate guanylyltransferase'}, {'document': ['The sublethal effects of naphthalene on protein, DNA (DNA), RNA (RNA), carbohydrates, lipids, and certain marker enzymes such as phosphatases, transaminases, and lactate dehydrogenase were studied in hepatopancreas, hemolymph, and ovary in the edible crab Scylla serrata.  The results revealed that there was overall decrease in total protein, total DNA, total RNA, free sugar, glycogen, protein-bound sugars, neutral lipid, glycolipid, and phospholipid in the test samples compared to control.  Similarly all the marker enzymes (acid phosphatase, alk. phosphatase, aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, and lactate dehydrogenase) were decreased in hepatopancreas and ovary.  On the other hand, in hemolymph, the activities of marker enzymes were increased.  The results were tested statistically and interpreted accordingly.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['sublethal effects'], 'process': ['phosphatases', 'transaminases', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'acid phosphatase', 'alk. phosphatase', 'aspartate transaminase', 'alanine transaminase', 'lactate dehydrogenase'], 'material': ['naphthalene', 'protein', 'DNA', 'DNA', 'RNA', 'RNA', 'carbohydrates', 'lipids', 'marker enzymes', 'hemolymph', 'ovary', 'edible crab', 'Scylla serrata', 'total protein', 'total DNA', 'total RNA', 'free sugar', 'glycogen', 'protein-bound sugars', 'neutral lipid', 'glycolipid', 'phospholipid', 'hepatopancreas', 'ovary', 'hemolymph']}], 'authors': 'Palanivelu, V.; Vijayavel, K.; Balasubramanian, S. Ezhilarasi; Balasubramanian, M. P.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Isoleucine and valine metabolism of Escherichia coli. XVI. Pattern of multivalent repression in strain K-12'}, {'document': ['OBJECTIVE:  To assess the long-term outcome in hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) carriers who have normal liver function tests, focusing on survival and the development of severe liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma.  DESIGN:  Cohort study with a mean follow-up of 130 months.  SETTING:  Liver clinic of a referral center.  PATIENTS:  Ninety-two HBsAg-positive blood donors with normal liver function tests.  MEASUREMENTS:  Histologic evaluation of liver specimens at baseline; clinical, biochemical, and serologic follow-up; and repeat liver biopsy if clinically indicated or after 10 years of follow-up.  RESULTS:  At baseline, 69 subjects had normal histologic findings or only minor abnormalities, 18 had chronic persistent hepatitis, and 5 had mild chronic active hepatitis.  Serum enzyme levels remained normal in 58 of 68 patients who had regular follow-up.  Three patients had biochemical changes consistent with hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection; in one of these patients, a later histologic evaluation showed progression to chronic active hepatitis.  One patient developed alcoholic cirrhosis.  Six other patients had mild or transient transaminase elevations, with no evidence of HBV replication, hepatitis D virus infection, hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, or histologic deterioration.  Liver histologic findings also remained unchanged in 21 patients who showed no biochemical changes during 10 years of follow-up and consented to have repeated liver biopsy.  Ten patients showed loss of HBsAg; 2 of these patients acquired antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs).  All patients who did not have regular follow-up, except 1, were interviewed by telephone during 1990: All denied having liver disease.  No patients developed hepatocellular carcinoma.  CONCLUSIONS:  Italian HBsAg carriers with initially normal liver function tests have an excellent prognosis: Delta superinfection is infrequent and the risk for developing hepatocellular carcinoma is low.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['assess the long-term outcome', 'Cohort study', 'Histologic evaluation of liver specimens'], 'process': ['liver function tests', 'repeat liver biopsy', 'biochemical changes', 'hepatitis B virus', 'histologic evaluation', 'alcoholic cirrhosis', 'HBV replication', 'hepatitis D virus infection', 'infection,', 'histologic deterioration', 'liver biopsy', 'liver disease', 'liver function tests', 'Delta superinfection'], 'material': ['hepatitis B surface antigen', 'Ninety-two', 'HBsAg-positive blood donors', 'clinical, biochemical, and serologic follow-up', 'chronic persistent hepatitis', 'mild chronic active hepatitis', 'Serum enzyme', 'HBV', 'chronic active hepatitis', 'mild or transient transaminase', 'hepatitis C virus', 'HCV', 'Liver histologic findings', 'HBsAg', 'hepatitis B surface antigen', 'anti-HBs', 'HBsAg carriers']}], 'authors': 'Kono H; Bradford B U; Yin M; Sulik K K; Koop D R; Peters J M; Gonzalez F J; McDonald T; Dikalova A; Kadiiska M B; et al', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.hepres.2005.09.027', 'journal': 'Hepatology Research ', 'title': 'Abnormal kynurenine pathway of tryptophan catabolism in cardiovascular diseases'}, {'document': ["The synthesis of methionine from 5'-methylthioadenosine was examd. in vitro in cell-free homogenates of rat liver.  2-Keto-4-methylthiobutyrate was identified as 1 of the products of 5'-[Me-14C]methylthioadenosine when incubated in vitro with rat liver homogenates.  Partial purifn. of the enzyme system by gel exclusion chromatog. to remove small-mol.-wt. substrates and cofactors revealed that synthesis of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyrate requires Mg2+ and is inhibited by Ca2+.  5-Methylthioribose 1-phosphate can replace 5'-methylthioadenosine as a substrate for methionine synthesis under these conditions, but 5-methylthioribose cannot.  5-Methylthioribonic acid was prepd. and was found not to be an intermediate compd. in this pathway.  The final step in this pathway for methionine synthesis is then the transamination of the keto acid, catalyzed by glutamine and asparagine transaminases."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ["synthesis of methionine from 5'-methylthioadenosine was examd", 'gel exclusion chromatog', 'synthesis of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyrate', 'methionine synthesis', 'methionine synthesis', 'transamination of the keto acid'], 'material': ['cell-free homogenates', '2-Keto-4-methylthiobutyrate', 'rat liver homogenates', 'small-mol.-wt. substrates', 'Mg2', 'Ca2', '+', '5-Methylthioribose', "5'-methylthioadenosine", '5-methylthioribose', '5-Methylthioribonic acid', 'glutamine', 'asparagine transaminases']}], 'authors': 'Reidl J; Boos W', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Environmental Biology ', 'title': 'Yeast cells lacking the mitochondrial gene encoding the ATP synthase subunit 6 exhibit a selective loss of complex IV and unusual mitochondrial morphology'}, {'document': ['This review aims to provide a historical reference of branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism and provide a link between peripheral and central nervous system (CNS) metabolism of BCAAs.  Leucine, isoleucine, and valine (Leu, Ile, and Val) are unlike most other essential amino acids (AA), being transaminated initially in extrahepatic tissues, and requiring interorgan or intertissue shuttling for complete catabolism.  Within the periphery, BCAAs are essential AAs and are required for protein synthesis, and are key nitrogen donors in the form of Glu, Gln, and Ala.  Leucine is an activator of the mammalian (or mechanistic) target of rapamycin, the master regulator of cell growth and proliferation.  The tissue distribution and activity of the catabolic enzymes in the peripheral tissues as well as neurological effects in Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD) show the BCAAs have a role in the CNS.  Interestingly, there are significant differences between murine and human CNS enzyme distribution and activities.  In the CNS, BCAAs have roles in neurotransmitter synthesis, protein synthesis, food intake regulation, and are implicated in diseases.  MSUD is the most prolific disease associated with BCAA metabolism, affecting the branched-chain α-keto acid dehydrogenase complex (BCKDC).  Mutations in the branched-chain aminotransferases (BCATs) and the kinase for BCKDC also result in neurological dysfunction.  However, there are many questions of BCAA metabolism in the CNS (as well as the periphery) that remain elusive.  We discuss areas of BCAA and BCKA metabolism that have yet to be researched adequately.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['provide a historical reference of', 'branched-chain amino acid', 'tissue distribution and activity of the catabolic enzymes', 'neurotransmitter synthesis', 'BCAA metabolism in the CNS (as well as the periphery) that remain elusive'], 'process': ['peripheral and central nervous system (', 'interorgan or intertissue shuttling', 'protein synthesis', 'Maple Syrup Urine Disease', 'MSUD', 'protein synthesis', 'food intake regulation', 'MSUD', 'BCAA metabolism', 'BCKDC', 'Mutations in the', 'branched-chain aminotransferases', 'kinase for BCKDC', 'neurological dysfunction'], 'material': ['BCAA', 'Leucine', 'isoleucine', 'valine', 'Leu', 'Ile', 'Val', 'essential amino', 'AA', 'extrahepatic tissues', 'BCAAs', 'AAs', 'nitrogen donors', 'Glu', 'Gln', 'Ala.', 'Leucine', 'mammalian (or mechanistic) target of rapamycin', 'master regulator of cell growth and proliferation', 'BCAAs', 'BCAAs', 'branched-chain α-keto acid dehydrogenase complex', 'BCATs', 'BCAA']}], 'authors': 'Cederbaum Arthur I', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The American journal of physiology ', 'title': 'Thiazolidinediones: Pleiotropic drugs with potent anti-inflammatory properties for tissue protection'}, {'document': ["Enzymic transamination is catalyzed by pyridoxal/pyridoxamine, and it involves remarkable cooperative catalysis of a Lys residue in the transaminase.  Inspired by transaminases, we developed a class of axially chiral pyridoxamines (I) [R1 = H, R2 = Me, Et, CH2CH2OH, (S)- or (R)-CHMePh; R1 = R2 = Et] bearing a lateral amine arm.  The pyridoxamines exhibited high catalytic activity and excellent enantioselectivity in asym. transamination of α-keto acids, to give various α-amino acids in 67-99% yields with 83-94% ee's.  The lateral amine arm likely participates in cooperative catalysis as the Lys residue does in biol. transamination and has an important impact on the transamination in terms of activity and enantioselectivity."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Enzymic transamination', 'cooperative catalysis', 'cooperative catalysis', 'transamination'], 'material': ['pyridoxal/pyridoxamine', 'Lys residue', 'transaminase', 'transaminases', 'axially chiral pyridoxamines', 'I', 'R1 = H', 'Me', 'Et', 'CH2CH2OH', 'R)-CHMePh', 'R1 = R2', 'Et', 'lateral amine arm', 'pyridoxamines', 'α-keto acids', 'α-amino acids', 'lateral amine arm', 'Lys residue']}], 'authors': 'Kebieche, M.; Lakroun, Z.; Lahouel, M.; Bouayed, J.; Meraihi, Z.; Soulimani, R.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Influence of insecticidal derivative (cartap hydrochloride) from the marine polychaete on certain enzyme systems of the fresh water fish Oreochromis mossambicus'}, {'document': ['The discovery and characterization of enzymes with both monoamine and diamine transaminase activity is reported, allowing conversion of a wide range of target ketone substrates with just a small excess of amine donor.  The diamine co-substrates (putrescine, cadaverine or spermidine) are bio-derived and the enzyme system results in very little waste, making it a greener strategy for the prodn. of valuable amine fine chems. and pharmaceuticals.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['discovery and characterization of enzymes'], 'process': ['conversion of a wide range of target ketone substrates', 'enzyme system', 'prodn'], 'material': ['amine donor', 'diamine co-substrates', 'putrescine', 'cadaverine', 'spermidine', 'pharmaceuticals']}], 'authors': 'Amori L; Wu H-Q; Marinozzi M; Pellicciari R; Guidetti P; Schwarcz R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Digestive diseases ', 'title': 'CYP2E1 is not involved in early alcohol-induced liver injury'}, {'document': ['A review.  The present review focuses on a subfamily of pyridoxal phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzymes, belonging to the broader fold-type I structural group and whose archetypes can be considered ornithine δ-transaminase and γ-aminobutyrate transaminase.  These proteins were originally christened "subgroup-II aminotransferases" (AT-II) but are very often referred to as "class-III aminotransferases".  As names suggest, the subgroup includes mainly transaminases, with just a few interesting exceptions.  However, at variance with most other PLP-dependent enzymes, catalysts in this subfamily seem specialized at utilizing substrates whose amino function is not adjacent to a carboxylate group.  AT-II enzymes are widespread in biol. and play mostly catabolic roles.  Furthermore, today several transaminases in this group are being used as bioorg. tools for the asym. synthesis of chiral amines.  We present an overview of the biochem. and structural features of these enzymes, illustrating how they are distinctive and how they compare with those of the other fold-type I enzymes.  This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Cofactor-dependent proteins: evolution, chem. diversity and bio-applications.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['subfamily of pyridoxal phosphate', '. synthesis of chiral amines', 'biochem. and structural features of these enzymes', 'evolution, chem. diversity'], 'process': ['AT', 'AT-II enzymes', 'bioorg. tools for the asym'], 'material': ['ornithine δ-transaminase', 'γ-aminobutyrate transaminase', 'subgroup-II aminotransferases', '-', 'II', 'class-III aminotransferases', 'transaminases', 'PLP-dependent enzymes', 'transaminases', 'fold-type I enzymes', 'Cofactor-dependent proteins']}], 'authors': 'Matthews, S. James', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.etp.2008.06.002', 'journal': 'Experimental and Toxicologic Pathology ', 'title': 'The malX malY operon of Escherichia coli encodes a novel enzyme II of the phosphotransferase system recognizing glucose and maltose and an enzyme abolishing the endogenous induction of the maltose system'}, {'document': ['Targeting angiogenesis in glioblastoma (GBM) may improve patient outcome by normalizing tumor vasculature and improving delivery of chemotherapeutics and oxygen.  Consequently, concomitant administration of small molecule inhibitors of the VEGF pathway will likely have a positive impact on chemoradiation treatment outcome.  We conducted a Phase I study of vatalanib, a small molecule inhibitor of VEGFR, PDGFR, and c-kit in patients with newly diagnosed GBM receiving radiation, temozolomide, and an enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drug in order to determine the MTD of vatalanib in this patient population.  We incorporated circulating biomarker and SNP analyses and pharmacokinetic studies.  Nineteen patients were enrolled and the MTD was not reached at the time of study termination.  Vatalanib was well tolerated with only 2 DLTs (thrombocytopenia and elevated transaminases).  Other grade 3/4 toxicities included leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, and hand-foot syndrome.  There were no wound-healing complications.  Of the 13 patients evaluable for a radiographic response, 2 had a partial response and 9 had stable disease.  Vatalanib significantly increased PlGF and sVEGFR1 in plasma circulation and decreased sVEGFR2 and sTie2.  Plasma collagen IV increased significantly by day 50 of treatment.  Vatalanib was well tolerated and this study demonstrates the safety of oral small molecule inhibitors in newly diagnosed GBM patients.  Blood biomarkers may be useful as pharmacodynamic markers of response to anti-angiogenic therapies.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['normalizing tumor vasculature', 'improving delivery of chemotherapeutics and oxygen', 'radiographic response', 'safety of oral small molecule inhibitors', 'pharmacodynamic markers of response to anti-angiogenic therapies'], 'process': ['Targeting angiogenesis', 'Phase I study', 'MTD', 'pharmacokinetic studies', 'MTD', 'neutropenia'], 'material': ['GBM', 'small molecule inhibitors of the VEGF pathway', 'vatalanib', 'small molecule inhibitor of VEGFR', 'PDGFR', 'c-kit', 'temozolomide', 'enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drug', 'vatalanib', 'circulating biomarker and SNP analyses', 'Vatalanib', 'stable disease', 'Vatalanib', 'PlGF', 'sVEGFR1', 'sVEGFR2', 'sTie2', 'Plasma collagen IV', 'Vatalanib', 'newly diagnosed GBM patients', 'Blood biomarkers']}], 'authors': 'Schoenhofen Ian C; Lunin Vladimir V; Julien Jean-Philippe; Li Yunge; Ajamian Eunice; Matte Allan; Cygler Miroslaw; Brisson Jean-Robert; Aubry Annie; Logan Susan M; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Neuroscience ', 'title': 'Role of CYP2E1 in ethanol-induced oxidant stress, fatty liver and hepatotoxicity'}, {'document': ['Specialized microbodies have previously been isolated and characterized from fatty seedling tissues (glyoxysomes) and leaves (leaf peroxisomes).  We have now examined 11 other plant tissues, including tubers, fruits, roots, shoots, and petals, and find that all contain particulate catalase, a distinctive common enzyme component of microbodies.  On linear sucrose gradients the catalase activity peaks sharply at a higher equilibrium density (1.20 to 1.25 gram per cm(3) in the various tissues) than the mitochondria (1.17 to 1.20).  Only small amounts of protein are recovered in the fractions containing catalase, although a definite band is visible in preparations from some tissues, e.g., potato.  As in the preparations from castor bean endosperm and spinach leaves for which comparable data are provided, the distribution of glycolate oxidase and uricase follows closely that of catalase on the gradients.  The preparations from potato lack glyoxylate reductase and the transaminases, typical enzymes of leaf peroxisomes, and the distinctive enzymes of glyoxysomes are missing.  Nonspecialized microbodies with limited enzyme composition can thus be isolated from a variety of plant tissues.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['transaminases'], 'material': ['Specialized microbodies', 'fatty seedling tissues', 'glyoxysomes', 'leaves', 'leaf peroxisomes', 'plant tissues', 'tubers', 'fruits', 'roots', 'shoots', 'petals', 'particulate catalase', 'microbodies', 'linear sucrose gradients', 'catalase', 'mitochondria', 'catalase', 'potato', 'castor bean endosperm', 'spinach leaves', 'glycolate oxidase', 'uricase', 'catalase', 'potato', 'glyoxylate reductase', 'leaf peroxisomes', 'glyoxysomes', 'Nonspecialized microbodies', 'plant tissues']}], 'authors': 'Augoustides-Savvopoulou P; Luka Z; Karyda S; Stabler S P; Allen R H; Patsiaoura K; Wagner C; Mudd S H', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.clinthera.2006.02.012', 'journal': 'Clinical Therapeutics ', 'title': 'Evaluation of epirubicin-induced acute oxidative stress toxicity in rat liver cells and mitochondria, and the prevention of toxicity through quercetin administration'}, {'document': ["Transaminases (TAs) have useful applications as biocatalysts because of their capability of introducing amino groups into ketones and keto acids with high enantioselectivity, regioselectivity and broad substrate specificity.  In this study we have shown that purified His-tagged omega-TA CV2025 from Chromobacterium violaceum is capable of complete conversion of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) to pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate (PMP) in the presence of (S)-α-methylbenzylamine (MBA) as the amine donor.  Conversions of 5 mM PLP with at least 0.8 mg/mL CV2025 TA (5.8 U/mL) were complete within 24 h.  The fastest completion was achieved with an enzyme concn. of 3 mg/mL (22 U/mL): Within 4 h 5 mM PLP/MBA were converted to 100% and 10 mM PLP/MBA to 70%.  PLP amination was only partially inhibited in the presence of 0.5 mM gabaculine, whereas the MBA:pyruvate transamination was shown to be inhibited completely.  PMP formation of comparable efficiency could not be achieved with equiv. units of porcine α-TA.  This represents the first example of a PLP-converting TA with an attributed gene and the first demonstration of quant. biocatalytic PMP synthesis."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['broad substrate specificity', 'quant. biocatalytic PMP synthesis'], 'process': ['Transaminases', 'introducing amino groups into ketones and keto acids', 'regioselectivity', "complete conversion of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (", 'enzyme concn', 'PLP amination', 'MBA:pyruvate transamination', 'PMP formation'], 'material': ['TAs', 'purified His-tagged omega-TA', 'Chromobacterium violaceum', 'PLP', "pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate (", 'PMP', '(S)-α-methylbenzylamine', 'MBA', 'amine donor', 'PLP', 'CV2025 TA', '5 mM PLP/MBA', 'PLP/MBA', 'gabaculine', 'equiv. units', 'porcine α-TA', 'PLP-converting TA']}], 'authors': 'Mulichak Anne M; Losey Heather C; Lu Wei; Wawrzak Zdzislaw; Walsh Christopher T; Garavito R Michael', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Specific inhibition of kynurenate synthesis enhances extracellular dopamine levels in the rodent striatum'}, {'document': ['Cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) is a monoecious plant in which female sex expression (gynoecy) is controlled by the Female (F) locus that can be modified by other sex-determining genes as well as by environmental and hormonal factors.  As in many other cucurbits, ethylene is the major plant hormone regulating female sex expression.  Previously we isolated the Cs-ACS1 (ACS, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase) gene that encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in the ethylene biosynthetic pathway.  We proposed that Cs-ACS1 is present in a single copy in monoecious (ffMM) plants whereas gynoecious plants (FFMM) contain an additional copy Cs-ACS1G that was mapped to the F locus.  To study the origin of Cs-ACS1G, we cloned and analyzed both the gynoecious-specific Cs-ACS1G gene and the non-sex-specific Cs-ACS1 gene.  Our results indicate that Cs-ACS1G is the result of a relatively recent gene duplication and recombination, between Cs-ACS1 and a branched-chain amino acid transaminase (BCAT) gene.  Taking into consideration that the Cs-ACS1G gene was mapped to the F locus, we propose that this duplication event gave rise to the F locus and to gynoecious cucumber plants.  Computer analysis of the 1 kb region upstream of the transcription initiation site revealed several putative cis-acting regulatory elements that can potentially confer the responsiveness of Cs-ACS1G to developmental and hormonal factors and thereby control female sex determination in cucumber.  These findings lead us to a model explaining the action of Cs-ACS1 and Cs-ACS1G in cucumber floral sex determination.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['control female sex determination', 'model explaining the action of', 'floral sex determination'], 'process': ['female sex expression', 'gynoecy', 'plant hormone', 'ethylene biosynthetic pathway', 'recent gene duplication', 'duplication event', 'Computer analysis'], 'material': ['Cucumber', 'Cucumis sativus', 'environmental and hormonal factors', 'ethylene', 'Cs-ACS1', 'ACS', '1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase', 'rate-limiting enzyme', 'Cs-ACS1', 'ffMM', 'gynoecious plants', 'FFMM', 'Cs-ACS1', 'Cs-ACS1', 'gynoecious-specific Cs-ACS1G gene', 'non-sex-specific Cs-ACS1 gene', 'Cs-ACS1', 'Cs-ACS1', 'branched-chain amino acid transaminase', 'BCAT', 'Cs-ACS1', 'F locus', 'gynoecious cucumber plants', '1 kb region upstream of the transcription initiation site', 'cis-acting regulatory elements', 'Cs-ACS1', 'developmental and hormonal factors', 'cucumber', 'Cs-ACS1', 'Cs-ACS1', 'cucumber']}], 'authors': 'Burke J D; Gould K L', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of inherited metabolic disease ', 'title': 'Entecavir for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus infection'}, {'document': ['Human kynurenine aminotransferase I/glutamine transaminase K (hKAT-I) is an important multifunctional enzyme.  This study systematically studies the substrates of hKAT-I and reassesses the effects of pH, Tris, amino acids and alpha-keto acids on the activity of the enzyme.  The experiments were comprised of functional expression of the hKAT-I in an insect cell/baculovirus expression system, purification of its recombinant protein, and functional characterization of the purified enzyme.  This study demonstrates that hKAT-I can catalyze kynurenine to kynurenic acid under physiological pH conditions, indicates indo-3-pyruvate and cysteine as efficient inhibitors for hKAT-I, and also provides biochemical information about the substrate specificity and cosubstrate inhibition of the enzyme. hKAT-I is inhibited by Tris under physiological pH conditions, which explains why it has been concluded that the enzyme could not efficiently catalyze kynurenine transamination.  Our findings provide a biochemical basis towards understanding the overall physiological role of hKAT-I in vivo and insight into controlling the levels of endogenous kynurenic acid through modulation of the enzyme in the human brain.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['studies the substrates', 'biochemical information', 'biochemical basis towards understanding', 'controlling the levels of endogenous kynurenic acid'], 'process': ['functional expression of the', 'purification of its recombinant protein', 'functional characterization', 'physiological pH conditions', 'physiological pH conditions', 'kynurenine transamination', 'modulation of the enzyme'], 'material': ['Human kynurenine', 'hKAT', 'multifunctional enzyme', 'hKAT', 'pH', 'Tris', 'amino acids', 'alpha-keto', 'enzyme', 'hKAT-I', 'insect cell/baculovirus expression system', 'enzyme', 'hKAT', 'kynurenine', 'indo-3-pyruvate', 'cysteine', 'hKAT', 'hKAT', '-', 'I', 'Tris', 'hKAT']}], 'authors': 'Tomkins G M; Thompson E B; Hayashi S; Gelehrter T; Granner D; Peterkofsky B', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Structural and functional characterization of PseC, an aminotransferase involved in the biosynthesis of pseudaminic acid, an essential flagellar modification in Helicobacter pylori'}, {'document': ['A pyridoxamine deriv. with a fused cyclohexeno ring carrying a sidearm was synthesized and optically resolved.  When the sidearm carried a dimethylamino group, I, the rate of ketimine to aldimine isomerization was accelerated in reaction with keto acids, relative to the rate without such a basic group.  The R enantiomer of I produced large enantiomeric preferences, >90%, of D-amino acids, whereas the R enantiomer of a similar compd., II, in which the catalytic dimethylamino group was missing, showed a modest preference for the synthesis of L-amino acids.  The mechanism of optical induction for the system with a catalytic sidearm was closely related to that used by transaminases.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['synthesis of L-amino acids', 'mechanism of optical induction'], 'material': ['pyridoxamine deriv', 'fused cyclohexeno ring', 'sidearm', 'dimethylamino group', 'I', 'ketimine', 'aldimine', 'keto acids', 'basic group', 'R enantiomer', 'I', 'D-amino acids', 'R enantiomer', 'catalytic dimethylamino group', 'catalytic sidearm', 'transaminases']}], 'authors': 'Stiles, Ashlee R.; Simon, Mariella T.; Stover, Alexander; Eftekharian, Shaya; Khanlou, Negar; Wang, Hanlin L.; Magaki, Shino; Lee, Hane; Partynski, Kate; Dorrani, Nagmeh; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular & general genetics : MGG ', 'title': 'Glycine N -methyltransferase deficiency: a new patient with a novel mutation'}, {'document': ['During the last decade, the use of transaminases for the prodn. of pharmaceutical and fine chem. intermediates has attracted a great deal of attention.  Transaminases are versatile biocatalysts for the efficient prodn. of amine intermediates and many have (S)-enantiospecificity.  Transaminases with (R)-specificity are needed to expand the applications of these enzymes in biocatalysis.  Here, the authors identified a fungal putative (R)-specific transaminase, (R)-amine:pyruvate transaminase, from the Eurotiomycetes, N. hematococca, cloned a synthetic version of this gene, demonstrated (R)-selective deamination of several substrates including (R)-α-methylbenzylamine, as well as the prodn. of (R)-amines, and detd. its crystal structure.  The crystal structures of the holoenzyme and its complex with the inhibitor, gabaculine, offer the 1st detailed insight into the structural basis for substrate specificity and enantioselectivity of the industrially important class of (R)-selective amine:pyruvate transaminases.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn. of pharmaceutical and fine chem. intermediates', 'biocatalysis'], 'process': ['pyruvate transaminase', 'deamination', 'pyruvate transaminases'], 'material': ['transaminases', 'Transaminases', 'prodn. of amine intermediates', 'Transaminases', 'fungal putative (R)-specific transaminase', '(R)-amine:', 'Eurotiomycetes', 'N. hematococca', 'synthetic version of this gene', '(R)-α-methylbenzylamine', 'prodn', '(R)-amines,', 'detd', 'crystal structure', 'crystal structures', 'holoenzyme', 'inhibitor', 'gabaculine']}], 'authors': 'Chaumeil Myriam M; Larson Peder E Z; Woods Sarah M; Cai Larry; Eriksson Pia; Lupo Janine M; Vigneron Daniel B; Nelson Sarah J; Robinson Aaron E; Phillips Joanna J; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cold Spring Harbor symposia on quantitative biology ', 'title': 'Structure of the TDP-epi-vancosaminyltransferase GtfA from the chloroeremomycin biosynthetic pathway'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Although abnormal liver morphology and function have long been recognized, characterization and importance of liver dysfunction in heart failure are poorly defined.  This study sought to investigate the relevance of circulating liver function tests (LFTs) in an unselected chronic heart failure (CHF) cohort.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  A total of 1032 consecutive ambulatory patients with CHF were enrolled from 2000 to 2008.  Clinical and laboratory variables including LFTs were collected at study entry.  Follow-up (median 36 months) was available in 1002 (97·1%) patients.  The endpoint was defined as death from any cause or heart transplantation.  Hazard ratios (HR) for transplant-free survival were estimated per log unit using Cox proportional hazard regression models for sex-stratified data.  RESULTS:  Sex-specific prevalence of cholestatic enzyme elevation was 19·2% as opposed to elevated transaminases in 8·3%.  Cholestatic enzymes, but not transaminases, were significantly associated with severity of heart failure syndrome and backward failure.  The endpoint was recorded in 339 patients (33·8%).  T-Bil, γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were associated with adverse outcome in bivariate models.  Of these, GGT [HR 1·22 (1·06, 1·41); P = 0·006] and ALP [HR 1·52 (1·09, 2·12); P = 0·014] were independently associated with the endpoint after adjustment for a wide array of clinical and laboratory predictors.  CONCLUSIONS:  Liver dysfunction is frequent in CHF and characterized by a predominantly cholestatic enzyme profile that is associated with disease severity and prognosis.  Thus, we propose a cardio-hepatic syndrome in CHF.  Future studies are needed to clarify the exact mechanisms of organ interaction.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['abnormal liver morphology and function', 'clarify the exact mechanisms of organ interaction'], 'process': ['liver dysfunction in heart failure', 'circulating liver function tests', 'LFTs', 'LFTs', 'HR', 'Cox proportional hazard regression models', 'cholestatic enzyme elevation', 'elevated transaminases', 'backward failure', 'GGT', 'alkaline phosphatase', 'ALP', 'adjustment', 'Liver dysfunction', 'cholestatic enzyme profile', 'cardio-hepatic syndrome'], 'material': ['CHF', 'CHF', 'Clinical and laboratory variables', 'death from any cause', 'Cholestatic enzymes', 'severity of heart failure syndrome', 'T-Bil', 'γ-glutamyltransferase', 'GGT', 'ALP', 'CHF', 'CHF']}], 'authors': 'Knill Tanja; Schuster Joachim; Reichelt Michael; Gershenzon Jonathan; Binder Stefan', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.ymgme.2016.07.001', 'journal': 'Molecular Genetics and Metabolism ', 'title': 'Molecular cloning and characterization of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe his3 gene for use as a selectable marker'}, {'document': ['Vibrio cholerae, the causative agent of the disease cholera, uses a cell to cell communication process called quorum sensing to control biofilm formation and virulence factor production.  The major V. cholerae quorum-sensing signal CAI-1 has been identified as (S)-3-hydroxytridecan-4-one, and the CqsA protein is required for CAI-1 production.  However, the biosynthetic route to CAI-1 remains unclear.  Here we report that (S)-adenosylmethionine (SAM) is one of the two biosynthetic substrates for CqsA.  CqsA couples SAM and decanoyl-coenzyme A to produce a previously unknown but potent quorum-sensing molecule, 3-aminotridec-2-en-4-one (Ea-CAI-1).  The CqsA mechanism is unique; it combines two enzymatic transformations, a β,γ-elimination of SAM and an acyltransferase reaction into a single PLP-dependent catalytic process.  Ea-CAI-1 is subsequently converted to CAI-1, presumably through the intermediate tridecane-3,4-dione (DK-CAI-1).  We propose that the Ea-CAI-1 to DK-CAI-1 conversion occurs spontaneously, and we identify the enzyme responsible for the subsequent step: conversion of DK-CAI-1 into CAI-1.  SAM is the substrate for the synthesis of at least three different classes of quorum-sensing signal molecules, indicating that bacteria have evolved a strategy to leverage an abundant substrate for multiple signaling purposes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['control biofilm formation', 'biosynthetic route'], 'process': ['cell to cell communication process', 'quorum sensing', 'virulence factor production', 'CAI-1 production', 'quorum-sensing molecule', 'CqsA mechanism', 'enzymatic transformations', 'β,γ-elimination', 'acyltransferase reaction', 'PLP-dependent catalytic process', 'conversion', 'conversion', 'synthesis of at least three different classes of quorum-sensing signal molecules'], 'material': ['Vibrio', 'cholerae', 'causative agent', 'CAI-1', '(S)-3-hydroxytridecan-4-one', 'CqsA protein', 'CAI-1', '(S)-adenosylmethionine (', 'SAM', 'CqsA.', 'CqsA', 'SAM', 'decanoyl-coenzyme', '3-aminotridec-2-en-4-one', 'Ea-CAI-1', 'SAM', 'Ea-CAI-1', 'CAI-1', 'intermediate tridecane-3,4-dione', 'DK-CAI-1', 'Ea-CAI-1', 'DK-CAI-1', 'enzyme', 'DK-CAI-1', 'CAI-1', 'SAM', 'bacteria']}], 'authors': 'Vijayavel, K.; Balasubramanian, M. P.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cancer research ', 'title': 'Tyrosine transaminase induction in mammalian cells in tissue culture'}, {'document': ["Kynurenine aminotransferase (KAT) is an enzyme responsible for synthesis of kynurenic acid (KYNA), a well established neuroprotective and anticonvulsant agent, involved in synaptic transmission and implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, Huntington's disease and other neurological disorders.  We have shown previously that kat2-/- mice had lower hippocampal KYNA levels and were more hyperactive than wild-type mice.  However, these abnormalities occur early and are transitory coinciding with restoration of KYNA levels, suggesting that compensatory changes or ontogenetic expression of another unknown homolog may account for the normalization of KYNA levels in the adult kat2-/- mice brain.  Here, we report the isolation of a novel KAT molecule, kat3, from mouse and human brain cDNA libraries.  The encoded 454 amino acids of human KAT III share 64.8% similarity to that of KAT I and 30.1% to KAT II.  Northern blot analysis demonstrated that kat3 mRNA is widely expressed but with higher expression levels in liver, kidney, heart, and neuroendocrine tissues.  RT-PCR and Northern analysis showed that kat3 expression starts as early as postnatal day (PND) 7 and peaks in adult.  The mRNA level of kat3 and kat1 when measured together is significantly higher at PND 60 in kat2-/- mice than those of wild-type mice indicating possible co-regulation of expression levels.  RNA-interference (RNAi) directed towards transcripts for either R03A10.4 or F28H6.3 in Caenorhabditis elegans which are kat1 and kat3 orthologs, respectively, did not result in any gross abnormalities.  Our results show that upregulation of kat3 and kat1 may be responsible for the phenotypic rescue on kat2-/- mice."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pathophysiology of schizophrenia'], 'process': ['Kynurenine aminotransferase', 'KAT', 'enzyme', 'synthesis of kynurenic acid', 'synaptic transmission', 'restoration of KYNA levels', 'compensatory changes', 'normalization of KYNA levels', 'isolation of a novel', 'Northern blot analysis', 'RT-PCR', 'Northern analysis', 'kat3 expression', 'RNA-interference', 'RNAi', 'upregulation', 'phenotypic rescue'], 'material': ['KYNA', 'wild-type mice', 'KAT molecule', 'kat3', 'mouse and human brain cDNA libraries', '454 amino acids', 'KAT', 'KAT', 'KAT', 'II', 'kat3', 'liver', 'kidney', 'heart', 'neuroendocrine tissues', 'kat3', 'kat1', 'Caenorhabditis elegans', 'kat1', 'kat3 orthologs', 'kat3', 'kat1']}], 'authors': 'de Franchis R; Meucci G; Vecchi M; Tatarella M; Colombo M; Del Ninno E; Rumi M G; Donato M F; Ronchi G', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant physiology ', 'title': 'Mutations in TFAM, encoding mitochondrial transcription factor A, cause neonatal liver failure associated with mtDNA depletion'}, {'document': ['The carbonyl reagent amino-oxyacetate is frequently used in metabolic studies to inhibit individual pyridoxal phosphate enzymes.  The reaction of this compound with three such enzymes, aspartate transaminase, 4-aminobutyrate transaminase and dopa (3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) decarboxylase, was studied to determine the extent to which the inhibition is reversible and the rates at which it takes place.  Reactions were followed by observing changes in the absorption spectra of the bound coenzyme and by measuring loss of enzyme activity.  The reactions with aspartate transaminase and aminobutyrate transaminase were not rapidly reversible and had second-order rate constants (21 degrees C) of 400 M-1.s.1 and 1300 M-1.s-1 respectively and all all concentrations studied showed the kinetics of a simple bimolecular reaction.  The reaction with 4-aminobutyrate transaminase could not be reversed and that with aspartate transaminase could only be reversed significantly by addition of cysteinesulphinate to convert the enzyme into its pyridoxamine form.  The first-order rate constant (21 degrees C) for the reverse reaction was 4 X 10(-5)s-1.  Dopa decarboxylase inhibition by amino-oxyacetate was more rapid and more readily reversible, but measurements of rate and equilibrium constants were not obtained for this enzyme.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['metabolic studies', 'inhibit individual pyridoxal phosphate enzymes'], 'process': ['reaction', 'aspartate transaminase', 'reverse reaction', 'Dopa decarboxylase inhibition', 'measurements of rate and equilibrium constants'], 'material': ['carbonyl reagent amino-oxyacetate', 'this compound', '4-aminobutyrate transaminase', 'dopa', '3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) decarboxylase', 'absorption spectra', 'aspartate transaminase', 'aminobutyrate', '4-aminobutyrate transaminase', 'aspartate transaminase', 'cysteinesulphinate', 'amino-oxyacetate', 'enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Backlund, Peter S., Jr.; Chang, Changtung P.; Smith, Roberts A.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.ecoenv.2005.02.004', 'journal': 'Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety ', 'title': 'Hyperpolarized [1-13C] glutamate: a metabolic imaging biomarker of IDH1 mutational status in glioma'}, {'document': ['Scrub typhus infection is an important cause of acute undifferentiated fever in South East Asia.  The clinical picture is characterized by sudden onset fever with chills and non-specific symptoms that include headache, myalgia, sweating and vomiting.  The presence of an eschar, in about half the patients with proven scrub typhus infection and usually seen in the axilla, groin or inguinal region, is characteristic of scrub typhus.  Common laboratory findings are elevated liver transaminases, thrombocytopenia and leukocytosis.  About a third of patients admitted to hospital with scrub typhus infection have evidence of organ dysfunction that may include respiratory failure, circulatory shock, mild renal or hepatic dysfunction, central nervous system involvement or hematological abnormalities.  Since the symptoms and signs are non-specific and resemble other tropical infections like malaria, enteric fever, dengue or leptospirosis, appropriate laboratory tests are necessary to confirm diagnosis.  Serological assays are the mainstay of diagnosis as they are easy to perform; the reference test is the indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) for the detection of IgM antibodies.  However in clinical practice, the enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay is done due to the ease of performing this test and a good sensitivity and sensitivity when compared with the IFA.  Paired samples, obtained at least two weeks apart, demonstrating a ≥ 4 fold rise in titre, is necessary for confirmation of serologic diagnosis.  The mainstay of treatment is the tetracycline group of antibiotics or chloramphenicol although macrolides are used alternatively.  In mild cases, recovery is complete.  In severe cases with multi-organ failure, mortality may be as high as 24%.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['acute undifferentiated fever', 'mild renal or hepatic dysfunction', 'confirm diagnosis', 'detection of IgM antibodies', 'confirmation of serologic diagnosis'], 'process': ['Scrub typhus infection', 'headache', 'elevated liver transaminases', 'thrombocytopenia', 'leukocytosis', 'scrub typhus infection', 'organ dysfunction', 'respiratory failure', 'central nervous system involvement', 'hematological abnormalities', 'tropical infections', 'dengue', 'leptospirosis', 'laboratory tests', 'Serological assays', 'indirect immunofluorescence assay', 'IFA', 'enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay', 'IFA'], 'material': ['eschar', 'scrub typhus', 'reference test', 'Paired samples', '≥ 4 fold rise in titre', 'tetracycline group of antibiotics', 'chloramphenicol', 'macrolides', 'severe cases']}], 'authors': 'Sperringer Justin E; Addington Adele; Hutson Susan M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Annals of internal medicine ', 'title': 'Arabidopsis branched-chain aminotransferase 3 functions in both amino acid and glucosinolate biosynthesis'}, {'document': ['Cholesteryl ester storage disease (CESD), an inherited deficiency of lysosomal acid lipase (LAL), is an underappreciated cause of progressive liver disease with no approved therapy.  Presenting features include dyslipidemia, elevated transaminases, and hepatomegaly.  To assess the clin. effects and safety of the recombinant human LAL, sebelipase alfa, nine patients received four once-weekly infusions (0.35, 1, or 3 mg·kg-1) in LAL-CL01, which is the first human study of this investigational agent.  Patients completing LAL-CL01 were eligible to enroll in the extension study (LAL-CL04) in which they again received four once-weekly infusions of sebelipase alfa (0.35, 1, or 3 mg·kg-1) before transitioning to long-term every-other-week infusions (1 or 3 mg·kg-1).  Sebelipase alfa was well tolerated, with mostly mild adverse events unrelated to sebelipase alfa.  No antidrug antibodies were detected.  Transaminases decreased in patients in LAL-CL01 and increased between studies.  In seven patients receiving ongoing sebelipase alfa treatment in LAL-CL04, the mean ± std. deviation (SD) decreases for alanine transaminase and aspartate aminotransferase at week 12 compared to the baseline values in LAL-CL01 were 46 ± 21 U/L (-52%) and 21 ± 14 U/L (-36%), resp. (P ≤ 0.05).  Through week 12 of LAL-CL04, these seven patients also showed mean decreases from baseline in total cholesterol of 44 ± 41 mg/dL (-22%; P = 0.047), low d. lipoprotein-cholesterol of 29 ± 31 mg/dL (-27%; P = 0.078), and triglycerides of 50 ± 38 mg/dL (-28%, P = 0.016) and increases in high d. lipoprotein-cholesterol of 5 mg/dL (15%; P = 0.016).  Conclusion: These data establish that sebelipase alfa, an investigational enzyme replacement, in patients with CESD is well tolerated, rapidly decreases serum transaminases, and that these improvements are sustained with long-term dosing and are accompanied by improvements in serum lipid profile. (HEPATOl. 2013;58:950-957).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['progressive liver disease', 'clin. effects and safety', 'HEPATOl. 2013;58:950-957'], 'process': ['Cholesteryl ester storage disease', 'CESD', 'deficiency of lysosomal acid lipase', 'CESD', 'decreases serum transaminases', 'long-term dosing'], 'material': ['LAL', 'dyslipidemia', 'elevated transaminases', 'recombinant human LAL', 'sebelipase alfa', 'LAL-CL01', 'extension study', 'LAL-CL04', 'sebelipase alfa', 'Sebelipase alfa', 'mild adverse events', 'sebelipase alfa', 'antidrug antibodies', 'LAL-CL01', 'sebelipase alfa', 'LAL-CL04', 'alanine transaminase', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'LAL-CL01', 'LAL-CL04', 'total cholesterol', 'low d. lipoprotein', 'triglycerides', 'sebelipase alfa', 'investigational enzyme replacement', 'serum lipid profile']}], 'authors': 'Liu, Yong Ethan; Lu, Zhaole; Li, Bo; Tian, Jiaxin; Liu, Feng; Zhao, Junyu; Hou, Chengkang; Li, Yingkun; Niu, Lili; Zhao, Baoguo', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Biological Chemistry ', 'title': 'Fluctuations of biochemical constituents and marker enzymes as a consequence of naphthalene toxicity in the edible estuarine crab Scylla serrata'}, {'document': ["Measurement of the active enzyme fraction in a given enzyme prepn. is a requirement for accurate kinetic measurements and activity comparisons of, for example, engineered mutants.  ω-Transaminases, enzymes capable of interconverting ketones and amines by use of pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP), can be used for the prodn. of pharmaceutically important chiral amines but are subject to engineering to meet the practical requirements in synthesis reactions.  Therefore, an active site quantification method is needed.  Such a method was developed by quantifying the amt. of consumed substrate in a virtually irreversible half transamination reaction.  (S)-1-phenylethylamine was converted to acetophenone, while the holo enzyme (E-PLP) was converted to apo enzyme with bound pyridoxamine-5'-phosphate (E:PMP).  Further, the mass of active enzyme was correlated to the absorbance of the holo enzyme to achieve a direct measurement method.  The active Chromobacterium violaceum ω-transaminase with bound PLP can be quantified at 395 nm with an apparent extinction coeff. of 8.1 mM-1 cm-1."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Measurement of the active enzyme fraction'], 'process': ['kinetic measurements', 'activity comparisons', 'engineered mutants', 'interconverting ketones and amines', 'synthesis reactions', 'active site quantification method', 'direct measurement method'], 'material': ['enzyme prepn', 'ω-Transaminases', 'enzymes', "pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (", 'PLP', 'prodn', 'pharmaceutically important chiral amines', 'S)-1-phenylethylamine', 'acetophenone', 'holo enzyme', 'E-PLP', 'apo enzyme', 'E:PMP', 'active enzyme', 'holo enzyme', 'Chromobacterium violaceum ω-transaminase', 'PLP']}], 'authors': 'Galman, James L.; Slabu, Iustina; Weise, Nicholas J.; Iglesias, Cesar; Parmeggiani, Fabio; Lloyd, Richard C.; Turner, Nicholas J.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Neurochemical research ', 'title': 'The natural history of asymptomatic hepatitis B surface antigen carriers'}, {'document': ['The aim of this study was the evaluation of the hepatic damages following a subchronic exposure to malathion, an organophosphorus (OP) insecticide.  Malathion was administered intragastrically in 1 mL corn oil contg. 100 mg/kg Body Wt. daily for 32 days.  Malondialdehyde (MDA) concn. superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities were analyzed using a non-denaturing electrophoresis.  The serum activities of Pseudocholinesterase (PchE), aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALAT) were detd.  Malathion exposure leads to a significant decrease in AchE activity, an increase in hepatic MDA, and in serum ASAT and ALAT activities.  A pos. correlation between serum transaminases levels and hepatic MDA was demonstrated.  These results indicate that malathion exposure induced lipid peroxidn.  LPO, a process of degrdn. of membrane lipids, involving the deterioration of the cellular integrity.  We have recorded a slight increase in antioxidant enzymes activities.  This leads us to suggest an insufficient elimination of free radicals, causing cytotoxic effects.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['evaluation of the hepatic damages', 'pos. correlation'], 'process': ['superoxide dismutase', 'non-denaturing electrophoresis', 'serum activities', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'ASAT', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'AchE activity', 'ASAT and ALAT activities', 'malathion exposure', 'lipid peroxidn', 'degrdn. of membrane lipids', 'deterioration of the cellular integrity', 'antioxidant enzymes activities', 'insufficient elimination of free radicals', 'cytotoxic effects'], 'material': ['malathion', 'organophosphorus (OP) insecticide', 'Malathion', 'corn oil', 'Malondialdehyde', 'MDA', 'SOD', 'catalase', 'CAT', 'Pseudocholinesterase', 'PchE', 'ALAT', 'Malathion', 'MDA', 'serum transaminases', 'hepatic MDA', 'LPO']}], 'authors': 'Schiroli, Davide; Peracchi, Alessio', 'DOI': '10.1021/jacs.6b03930', 'journal': 'Journal of the American Chemical Society ', 'title': "Identification of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyrate as an intermediate compound in methionine synthesis from 5'-methylthioadenosine"}, {'document': ['AIM:  To investigate the usefulness of transient elastography by Fibroscan (FS), a rapid non-invasive technique to evaluate liver fibrosis, in the management of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) carriers.  METHODS:  In 297 consecutive HBV carriers, we studied the correlation between liver stiffness (LS), stage of liver disease and other factors potentially influencing FS measurements.  In 87 chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients, we monitored the FS variations according to the spontaneous or treatment-induced variations of biochemical activity during follow-up.  RESULTS:  FS values were 12.3 +/- 3.3 kPa in acute hepatitis, 10.3 +/- 8.8 kPa in chronic hepatitis, 4.3 +/- 1.0 kPa in inactive carriers and 4.6 +/- 1.2 kPa in blood donors.  We identified the cut-offs of 7.5 and 11.8 kPa for the diagnosis of fibrosis >or= S3 and cirrhosis respectively, showing 93.9% and 86.5% sensitivity, 88.5% and 96.3% specificity, 76.7% and 86.7% positive predictive value (PPV), 97.3% and 96.3% negative predictive value (NPV) and 90.1% and 94.2% diagnostic accuracy.  At multivariate analysis in 171 untreated carriers, fibrosis stage (t = 13.187, P < 0.001), active vs inactive HBV infection (t = 6.437, P < 0.001), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (t = 4.740, P < 0.001) and HBV-DNA levels (t = or-2.046, P = 0.042) were independently associated with FS.  Necroinflammation score (t = 2.158, > 10/18 vs <or= 10/18, P = 0.035) and ALT levels (t = 3.566, P = 0.001) were independently associated with LS in 83 untreated patients without cirrhosis and long-term biochemical remission (t = 4.662, P < 0.001) in 80 treated patients.  During FS monitoring (mean follow-up 19.9 +/- 7.1 mo) FS values paralleled those of ALT in patients with hepatitis exacerbation (with 1.2 to 4.4-fold increases in CHB patients) and showed a progressive decrease during antiviral therapy.  CONCLUSION:  FS is a non-invasive tool to monitor liver disease in chronic HBV carriers, provided that the pattern of biochemical activity is taken into account.  In the inactive carrier, it identifies non-HBV-related causes of liver damage and transient reactivations.  In CHB patients, it may warrant a more appropriate timing of control liver biopsies.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['investigate the usefulness of transient elastography', 'evaluate liver fibrosis', 'management of chronic hepatitis B virus', 'diagnostic accuracy', 'monitor liver disease', 'more appropriate timing of control liver biopsies'], 'process': ['Fibroscan', 'FS', 'liver stiffness', 'LS', 'FS measurements', 'monitored the FS variations', 'cirrhosis', 'specificity', 'positive predictive value', 'PPV', 'NPV', 'multivariate analysis', 'fibrosis stage', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'ALT', 'HBV-DNA', 'Necroinflammation score', 'LS', 'FS monitoring', 'FS values', 'hepatitis exacerbation', 'antiviral therapy', 'FS', 'biochemical activity', 'liver damage'], 'material': ['HBV', 'HBV carriers', 'chronic hepatitis B', 'CHB', 'acute hepatitis', 'chronic hepatitis', 'inactive carriers', 'blood donors', 'untreated carriers', 'active vs inactive HBV', 'ALT', 'ALT', 'CHB patients', 'chronic HBV carriers', 'inactive carrier', 'non-HBV-related causes', 'CHB patients']}], 'authors': 'Gerstner Elizabeth R; Eichler April F; Plotkin Scott R; Drappatz Jan; Doyle Colin L; Xu Lei; Duda Dan G; Wen Patrick Y; Jain Rakesh K; Batchelor Tracy T', 'DOI': '10.1039/C6GC02102F', 'journal': 'Green Chemistry ', 'title': 'Branched-Chain Amino Acids and Brain Metabolism'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Fatty liver disease (FLD) is a highly prevalent condition in obese (Ob) children, who are at increased risk for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).  However, the contribution of OSA to FLD remains unknown.  DESIGN:  Prospective study.  SETTING:  Polysomnographic evaluation and assessment of plasma levels of insulin, glucose, and lipids, and liver function tests.  PARTICIPANTS:  A total of 518 consecutive snoring children 4 to 17 years of age who were being evaluated for habitual snoring and suspected OSA.  RESULTS:  A total of 376 children had body mass index z score of < 1.20 (non-Ob children), 3 children (<1%) had elevated serum aminotransferase (LFT) levels, and 248 had OSA (65.9%).  Among the 142 overweight/Ob children, 46 had elevated LFT levels (32.4%); of these children, 42 had OSA (91.3%).  In contrast, OSA was present in only 71.8% of Ob children without elevated LFT level (p < 0.01).  Insulin resistance and hyperlipidemia were more likely to occur in children with FLD.  Furthermore, FLD was improved after treatment of OSA in 32 of 42 Ob children (p < 0.0001).  CONCLUSION:  Increased liver enzyme levels are frequently found in Ob snoring children, particularly among those with OSA and/or metabolic dysfunction.  Effective treatment of OSA results in improved liver function test results in the vast majority of these patients.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Prospective study', 'Effective treatment of OSA'], 'process': ['Fatty liver disease', 'FLD', 'obstructive sleep apnea', 'OSA', 'FLD', 'Polysomnographic evaluation', 'assessment of plasma levels of insulin', 'liver function tests', 'OSA', 'elevated serum aminotransferase', 'LFT', 'OSA', 'elevated LFT levels', 'OSA', 'OSA', 'elevated LFT level', 'Insulin resistance', 'hyperlipidemia', 'FLD', 'FLD', 'treatment of OSA', 'Increased liver enzyme', 'metabolic dysfunction', 'improved liver function test results'], 'material': ['OSA', 'glucose', 'overweight/Ob children', 'Ob children', 'Ob children', 'Ob snoring children', 'OSA']}], 'authors': 'Huang A H; Beevers H', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.bbapap.2015.02.023', 'journal': 'Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, Proteins and Proteomics ', 'title': 'Enzyme-inspired axially chiral pyridoxamines armed with a cooperative lateral amine chain for enantioselective biomimetic transamination'}, {'document': ['Background: We set out in this study to demonstrate the adverse effect profile of methotrexate when used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in a district general hospital population, and to investigate the effect of alc. consumption in these patients.  Methods: A prospective evaluation of 550 RA patients and 69 PsA patients was undertaken, controlling for confounding factors.  Systematically randomized patients were further analyzed regarding alc. consumption.  A transaminase level of three times the upper limit of normal on two or more occasions was taken to indicate hepatic injury.  Results: Gastrointestinal disturbance was the predominant adverse effect in RA patients (9.8%); hepatic disturbance was the most frequent in PsA patients (14.5%).  Both groups had hepatic enzyme elevation; PsA patients were at significantly greater risk of elevated transaminases than RA patients (14.5% vs 7.5%, resp., χ2 = 4.017).  Alc. consumption did not correlate with hepatic injury (mean 5.15 vs 6.6 alc. units/wk consumed by RA and PsA patients, resp.).  Conclusion: Our data show methotrexate-treated PsA patients have a higher incidence of hepatotoxicity compared with methotrexate-treated patients with RA.  It is proposed that psoriatic patients may be inherently more susceptible to methotrexate hepatotoxicity than are rheumatoid patients.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['demonstrate the adverse effect profile', 'treatment of rheumatoid arthritis', 'prospective evaluation'], 'process': ['RA', 'PsA', '. consumption', 'controlling for confounding factors', '. consumption', 'transaminase level of three times the upper limit of normal on two or more occasions', 'hepatic injury', 'Gastrointestinal disturbance', 'hepatic disturbance', 'hepatic enzyme elevation', 'elevated transaminases', '. consumption', 'hepatic injury', 'hepatotoxicity', 'hepatotoxicity'], 'material': ['methotrexate', 'district general hospital', 'alc', 'RA patients', 'PsA patients', 'alc', 'RA patients', 'PsA patients', 'PsA patients', 'RA patients', 'Alc', 'RA', 'PsA patients', 'methotrexate-treated PsA patients', 'methotrexate-treated patients', 'psoriatic patients', 'methotrexate', 'rheumatoid patients']}], 'authors': 'Schell, Ursula; Wohlgemuth, Roland; Ward, John M.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of neuro-oncology ', 'title': 'Biocatalytic transamination with near-stoichiometric inexpensive amine donors mediated by bifunctional mono- and di-amine transaminases'}, {'document': ['Oxalate synthesis in human hepatocytes is not well defined despite the clinical significance of its overproduction in diseases such as the primary hyperoxalurias.  To further define these steps, the metabolism to oxalate of the oxalate precursors glycolate and glyoxylate and the possible pathways involved were examined in HepG2 cells.  These cells were found to contain oxalate, glyoxylate, and glycolate as intracellular metabolites and to excrete oxalate and glycolate into the medium.  Glycolate was taken up more effectively by cells than glyoxylate, but glyoxylate was more efficiently converted to oxalate.  Oxalate was formed from exogenous glycolate only when cells were exposed to high concentrations.  Peroxisomes in HepG2 cells, in contrast to those in human hepatocytes, were not involved in glycolate metabolism.  Incubations with purified lactate dehydrogenase suggested that this enzyme was responsible for the metabolism of glycolate to oxalate in HepG2 cells.  The formation of 14C-labeled glycine from 14C-labeled glycolate was observed only when cell membranes were permeabilized with Triton X-100.  These results imply that peroxisome permeability to glycolate is restricted in these cells.  Mitochondria, which produce glyoxylate from hydroxyproline metabolism, contained both alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT)2 and glyoxylate reductase activities, which can convert glyoxylate to glycine and glycolate, respectively.  Expression of AGT2 mRNA in HepG2 cells was confirmed by RT-PCR.  These results indicate that HepG2 cells will be useful in clarifying the nonperoxisomal metabolism associated with oxalate synthesis in human hepatocytes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['clarifying the nonperoxisomal metabolism'], 'process': ['Oxalate synthesis', 'metabolism', 'excrete oxalate and glycolate into the medium', 'glycolate metabolism', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'metabolism of glycolate to oxalate', 'peroxisome permeability', 'hydroxyproline metabolism', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT)2', 'glyoxylate reductase activities', 'RT-PCR', 'oxalate synthesis'], 'material': ['oxalate', 'oxalate precursors', 'glycolate', 'glyoxylate', 'HepG2 cells', 'cells', 'oxalate', 'glyoxylate', 'glycolate', 'intracellular metabolites', 'Glycolate', 'cells', 'glyoxylate', 'glyoxylate', 'oxalate', 'Oxalate', 'exogenous glycolate', 'cells', 'Peroxisomes', 'HepG2 cells', 'hepatocytes', 'HepG2 cells', '14C-labeled glycine', '14C-labeled glycolate', 'cell membranes', 'glycolate', 'cells', 'Mitochondria', 'glyoxylate', 'glyoxylate', 'glycine', 'glycolate', 'AGT2 mRNA', 'HepG2 cells', 'HepG2 cells']}], 'authors': 'Knopf Ronit Rimon; Trebitsh Tova', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant physiology ', 'title': 'A subfamily of PLP-dependent enzymes specialized in handling terminal amines'}, {'document': ["Administration of aflatoxin B1 to rats (2 mg/kg i.p.) caused increase in the activities of γ-glutamyl transpeptidase, 5'-nucleotidase, acid phosphatase, acid RNase as well as content of lipid peroxides in liver after 6 wk.  However, the activities of succinate dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphatase, catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase in liver were decreased.  The levels of glycogen and reduced glutathione were also decreased.  There were elevations in the levels of serum transaminases, phosphatases (acid and alk.), dehydrogenases (sorbitol, lactate, and glutamate) and bilirubin following aflatoxin B1 administration.  Picroliv (25 mg/kg/day orally for 6 wk), an iridoid glycoside isolated from the roots and rhizomes of Picrorhiza kurroa, prevented the biochem. changes induced by aflatoxin B1."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biochem. changes'], 'process': ["5'-nucleotidase", 'acid phosphatase', 'acid RNase', 'succinate dehydrogenase', 'glucose-6-phosphatase', 'superoxide dismutase', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'glutathione reductase', 'elevations in the levels of', 'aflatoxin B1'], 'material': ['aflatoxin', 'γ-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'lipid peroxides', 'catalase', 'glycogen', 'serum transaminases', 'phosphatases', 'dehydrogenases', 'sorbitol', 'lactate', 'glutamate', 'bilirubin', 'Picroliv', 'iridoid glycoside', 'roots', 'aflatoxin B1']}], 'authors': 'Han Qian; Li Junsuo; Li Jianyong', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.molcatb.2008.10.005', 'journal': 'Journal of Molecular Catalysis B: Enzymatic ', 'title': 'Phase I trial with biomarker studies of vatalanib (PTK787) in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma treated with enzyme inducing anti-epileptic drugs and standard radiation and temozolomide'}, {'document': ['Regions of the Streptomyces venezuelae ISP5230 chromosome flanking pabAB, an amino-deoxychorismate synthase gene needed for chloramphenicol (Cm) production, were examined for involvement in biosynthesis of the antibiotic.  Three of four ORFs in the sequence downstream of pabAB resembled genes involved in the shikimate pathway.  BLASTX searches of GenBank showed that the deduced amino acid sequences of ORF3 and ORF4 were similar to proteins encoded by monofunctional genes for chorismate mutase and prephenate dehydrogenase, respectively, while the sequence of the ORF5 product resembled deoxy-arabino-heptulosonate-7-phosphate (DAHP) synthase, the enzyme that initiates the shikimate pathway.  A relationship to Cm biosynthesis was indicated by sequence similarities between the ORF6 product and membrane proteins associated with Cm export.  BLASTX searches of GenBank for matches with the translated sequence of ORF1 in chromosomal DNA immediately upstream of pabAB did not detect products relevant to Cm biosynthesis.  However, the presence of Cm biosynthesis genes in a 7.5 kb segment of the chromosome beyond ORF1 was inferred when conjugal transfer of the DNA into a blocked S. venezuelae mutant restored Cm production.  Deletions in the 7.5 kb segment of the wild-type chromosome eliminated Cm production, confirming the presence of Cm biosynthesis genes in this region.  Sequencing and analysis located five ORFs, one of which (ORF8) was deduced from BLAST searches of GenBank, and from characteristic motifs detected in alignments of its deduced amino acid sequence, to be a monomodular nonribosomal peptide synthetase.  GenBank searches did not identify ORF7, but matched the translated sequences of ORFs 9, 10 and 11 with short-chain ketoreductases, the ATP-binding cassettes of ABC transporters, and coenzyme A ligases, respectively.  As has been shown for ORF2, disrupting ORF3, ORF7, ORF8 or ORF9 blocked Cm production.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Sequencing and analysis'], 'process': ['biosynthesis of the antibiotic', 'shikimate pathway', 'BLASTX searches', 'shikimate pathway', 'Cm biosynthesis', 'Cm export', 'BLASTX searches', 'Cm biosynthesis', 'Cm biosynthesis genes', 'conjugal transfer', 'Deletions in the 7.5 kb segment', 'Cm biosynthesis genes', 'BLAST searches', 'GenBank searches', 'Cm production'], 'material': ['Streptomyces venezuelae', 'pabAB', 'amino-deoxychorismate synthase gene', 'Cm', 'pabAB', 'proteins', 'chorismate mutase', 'prephenate dehydrogenase', 'deoxy-arabino-heptulosonate-7-phosphate', 'DAHP', 'membrane proteins', 'pabAB', 'S. venezuelae mutant', 'Cm', 'wild-type chromosome', 'Cm', 'ORF8', 'monomodular nonribosomal peptide synthetase', 'short-chain ketoreductases', 'ATP-binding cassettes', 'ABC transporters', 'coenzyme A ligases']}], 'authors': 'Zimmerman, Steven C.; Breslow, Ronald', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant & cell physiology ', 'title': 'Isolation of microbodies from plant tissues'}, {'document': ['A mutant was isolated from Escherichia coli K-12 which requires glucosamine or N-acetylglucosamine for growth.  Depriving the mutant of glucosamine resulted in a rapid loss of viability of the cells, followed by a decrease in the turbidity of the culture.  When the mutant cells were resuspended in broth media containing 10% sucrose, the rod-shaped cells became spheroplasts.  However, the presence of sucrose in the media did not prevent the cells from losing their viability.  This mutant was shown to be deficient in the activity of l-glutamine:d-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.16).  The activity of the deaminating enzyme, 2-amino-2-deoxy-d-glucose-6-phosphate ketol-isomerase (EC 5.3.1.10), appeared to be normal in this mutant.  The position of the mutation has been determined to be at the 74th min of the Taylor and Trotter map, as shown by cotransduction with phoS (90%) and ilv (25%) by using bacteriophage P1.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['This mutant'], 'process': ['Depriving the mutant', 'cotransduction'], 'material': ['Escherichia coli K-12', 'glucosamine', 'N-acetylglucosamine', 'glucosamine', 'cells', 'mutant cells', 'broth media', 'sucrose', 'rod-shaped cells', 'sucrose', 'l-glutamine', 'd-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase', 'deaminating enzyme', '2-amino-2-deoxy-d-glucose-6-phosphate ketol-isomerase', 'Taylor and Trotter map', 'phoS', 'ilv', 'bacteriophage P1']}], 'authors': 'Sayer, Christopher; Martinez-Torres, Ruben J.; Richter, Nina; Isupov, Michail N.; Hailes, Helen C.; Littlechild, Jennifer A.; Ward, John M.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'European journal of biochemistry ', 'title': "Synthesis of pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate using an MBA:pyruvate transaminase as biocatalyst"}, {'document': ['In humans, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) depletion syndromes are a group of genetically and clinically heterogeneous autosomal recessive disorders that arise as a consequence of defects in mtDNA replication or nucleotide synthesis.  Clinical manifestations are variable and include myopathic, encephalomyopathic, neurogastrointestinal or hepatocerebral phenotypes.  Through clinical exome sequencing, we identified a homozygous missense variant (c.533C>T; p.Pro178Leu) in mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) segregating in a consanguineous kindred of Colombian-Basque descent in which two siblings presented with IUGR, elevated transaminases, conjugated hyperbilirubinemia and hypoglycemia with progression to liver failure and death in early infancy.  Results of the liver biopsy in the proband revealed cirrhosis, micro- and macrovesicular steatosis, cholestasis and mitochondrial pleomorphism.  Electron microscopy of muscle revealed abnormal mitochondrial morphology and distribution while enzyme histochemistry was underwhelming.  Electron transport chain testing in muscle showed increased citrate synthase activity suggesting mitochondrial proliferation, while respiratory chain activities were at the lower end of normal. mtDNA content was reduced in liver and muscle (11% and 21% of normal controls respectively).  While Tfam mRNA expression was upregulated in primary fibroblasts, Tfam protein level was significantly reduced.  Furthermore, functional investigations of the mitochondria revealed reduced basal respiration and spare respiratory capacity, decreased mtDNA copy number and markedly reduced nucleoids.  TFAM is essential for transcription, replication and packaging of mtDNA into nucleoids.  Tfam knockout mice display embryonic lethality secondary to severe mtDNA depletion.  In this report, for the first time, we associate a homozygous variant in TFAM with a novel mtDNA depletion syndrome.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) depletion syndromes', 'novel mtDNA depletion syndrome'], 'process': ['defects in mtDNA replication', 'nucleotide synthesis', 'clinical exome sequencing', 'homozygous missense variant', 'IUGR', 'elevated transaminases', 'conjugated hyperbilirubinemia', 'hypoglycemia', 'liver failure', 'liver biopsy', 'cirrhosis', 'cholestasis', 'mitochondrial pleomorphism', 'enzyme histochemistry', 'Electron transport chain testing', 'citrate synthase activity', 'mitochondrial proliferation', 'respiratory chain activities', 'mRNA expression', 'protein level', 'functional investigations', 'reduced basal respiration', 'decreased mtDNA copy number', 'packaging of mtDNA into nucleoids', 'mtDNA depletion'], 'material': ['autosomal recessive disorders', 'mitochondrial transcription factor', 'TFAM', 'consanguineous kindred', 'two siblings', 'Electron microscopy', 'abnormal mitochondrial morphology and distribution', 'mtDNA', 'liver', 'muscle', 'Tfam', 'primary fibroblasts', 'Tfam', 'nucleoids', 'TFAM', 'Tfam', 'TFAM']}], 'authors': 'Poelzl Gerhard; Ess Michael; Mussner-Seeber Christine; Pachinger Otmar; Frick Matthias; Ulmer Hanno', 'DOI': '10.1021/ja00317a054', 'journal': 'Journal of the American Chemical Society ', 'title': 'The female-specific Cs-ACS1G gene of cucumber. A case of gene duplication and recombination between the non-sex-specific 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase gene and a branched-chain amino acid transaminase gene'}, {'document': ["The kynurenine pathway is responsible for the metabolism of more than 95% of dietary tryptophan (TRP) and produces numerous bioactive metabolites.  Recent studies have focused on three enzymes in this pathway: indoleamine dioxygenase (IDO1), kynurenine monooxygenase (KMO), and kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II).  IDO1 inhibitors are currently in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer, and these agents may also have therapeutic utility in neurological disorders, including multiple sclerosis.  KMO inhibitors are being investigated as potential treatments for neurodegenerative diseases, such as Huntington's and Alzheimer's diseases.  KAT II inhibitors have been proposed in new therapeutic approaches toward psychiatric and cognitive disorders, including cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia.  Numerous medicinal chemistry studies are currently aimed at the design of novel, potent, and selective inhibitors for each of these enzymes.  The emerging opportunities and significant challenges associated with pharmacological modulation of these enzymes will be explored in this review."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treatment of cancer', 'multiple sclerosis', 'psychiatric and cognitive disorders', 'cognitive impairment', 'design of novel, potent, and selective inhibitors'], 'process': ['kynurenine pathway', 'metabolism of more than 95% of dietary tryptophan', 'indoleamine dioxygenase', 'IDO1 inhibitors', 'KMO inhibitors', 'medicinal chemistry studies', 'pharmacological modulation'], 'material': ['TRP', 'bioactive metabolites', 'IDO1', 'kynurenine monooxygenase', 'KMO', 'kynurenine aminotransferase II', 'KAT', 'II', 'KAT II']}], 'authors': 'Wei Yunzhou; Perez Lark J; Ng Wai-Leung; Semmelhack Martin F; Bassler Bonnie L', 'DOI': '10.1111/febs.12778', 'journal': 'FEBS Journal ', 'title': 'pH dependence, substrate specificity and inhibition of human kynurenine aminotransferase I'}, {'document': ["The objective of this study was to describe experience with the use of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS).  MMF is a potent immunosuppressant that is a selective inhibitor of IMP dehydrogenase type II, the enzyme responsible for the de novo synthesis of the purine nucleotide guanine within activated T and B lymphocytes and macrophages.  A retrospective review of experience in treating 79 MS patients with MMF (61 with secondary progressive, 14 with relapsing-remitting, and 4 with primary progressive MS) in the authors' MS center.  In most cases, MMF was added as adjunctive therapy in patients already being treated with either interferon-β (n = 44) or glatiramer acetate (n = 20).  Fifteen patients not able to use interferon or glatiramer acetate were treated with MMF monotherapy.  Seventy percent of the patients continued MMF therapy.  Eight patients discontinued therapy because of side effects, 7 patients continued to exhibit evidence of disease progression, 4 were denied insurance coverage, 2 were lost to follow-up, and 1 patient had an elevation of hepatic transaminases that resolved on discontinuation of MMF.  One patient discontinued MMF therapy secondary to cytomegalovirus diarrhea.  MMF was well tolerated by the majority of patients treated.  While these clin. observations were uncontrolled, the clin. course of MS was either unchanged or subjectively improved in many of the treated patients.  A randomized controlled trial of MMF in MS, either as monotherapy or in conjunction with interferon or glatiramer acetate, appears warranted."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['describe experience with the use of mycophenolate mofetil', 'treatment of multiple sclerosis', 'MS', 'retrospective review of experience', 'clin. observations', 'clin. course of MS'], 'process': ['IMP dehydrogenase', 'de novo synthesis of the purine nucleotide guanine', 'MMF therapy', 'elevation of hepatic transaminases', 'cytomegalovirus diarrhea', 'randomized controlled trial'], 'material': ['MMF', 'MMF', 'T and B lymphocytes', 'MMF', 'primary progressive MS', 'MMF', 'interferon', 'glatiramer', 'acetate', 'interferon', 'glatiramer', 'MMF', 'MMF', 'MMF', 'MMF', 'MMF', 'interferon', 'glatiramer']}], 'authors': 'Yu Ping; Li Zhengsheng; Zhang Ling; Tagle Danilo A; Cai Tao', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'European journal of clinical investigation ', 'title': 'Asymmetric synthesis of amino acids by pyridoxamine enzyme analogs utilizing general base-acid catalysis'}, {'document': ['A deficiency of the liver-specific enzyme alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) is responsible for the potentially lethal hereditary kidney stone disease primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1).  Many of the mutations in the gene encoding AGT are associated with specific enzymatic phenotypes such as accelerated proteolysis (Ser205Pro), intra-peroxisomal aggregation (Gly41Arg), inhibition of pyridoxal phosphate binding and loss of catalytic activity (Gly82Glu), and peroxisome-to-mitochondrion mistargeting (Gly170Arg).  Several mutations, including that responsible for AGT mistargeting, co-segregate and interact synergistically with a Pro11Leu polymorphism found at high frequency in the normal population.  In order to gain further insights into the mechanistic link between genotype and enzymatic phenotype in PH1, we have determined the crystal structure of normal human AGT complexed to the competitive inhibitor amino-oxyacetic acid to 2.5A.  Analysis of this structure allows the effects of these mutations and polymorphism to be rationalised in terms of AGT tertiary and quaternary conformation, and in particular it provides a possible explanation for the Pro11Leu-Gly170Arg synergism that leads to AGT mistargeting.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['gain further insights into the', 'mechanistic link between genotype and enzymatic phenotype'], 'process': ['deficiency of the liver-specific enzyme', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'PH1', 'accelerated proteolysis', 'intra-peroxisomal aggregation', 'Gly41Arg', 'inhibition of pyridoxal phosphate binding', 'loss of catalytic activity', 'peroxisome-to-mitochondrion mistargeting', 'Gly170Arg', 'AGT mistargeting', 'Pro11Leu polymorphism', 'AGT tertiary and quaternary conformation', 'AGT mistargeting'], 'material': ['AGT', 'crystal structure', 'normal human AGT', 'competitive inhibitor', 'amino-oxyacetic', 'Pro11Leu-Gly170Arg synergism']}], 'authors': 'John R A; Charteris A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'ACS chemical biology ', 'title': 'The substrate specificity, enantioselectivity and structure of the (R)-selective amine:pyruvate transaminase from Nectria haematococca'}, {'document': ['Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major cause of liver disease characterized by inflammation, cell damage, and fibrotic reactions of hepatocytes.  Apoptosis has been implicated in the pathogenesis, although it is unclear whether proteases of the caspase family as the central executioners of apoptosis are involved and how caspase activation contributes to liver injury.  In the present study, we measured the activation of effector caspases in liver biopsy specimens of patients with chronic HCV infection.  The activation of caspase-3, caspase-7, and cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP), a specific caspase substrate, were measured by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis by using antibodies that selectively detect the active truncated, but not the inactive precursor forms of the caspases and PARP.  We found that caspase activation was considerably elevated in liver lobules of HCV patients in comparison to normal controls.  Interestingly, the immunoreactive cells did yet not reveal an overt apoptotic morphology.  The extent of caspase activation correlated significantly with the disease grade, i.e., necroinflammatory activity.  In contrast, no correlation was observed with other surrogate markers such as serum transaminases and viral load.  In biopsy specimens with low activity (grade 0) 7.7% of the hepatocytes revealed caspase-3 activation, whereas 20.9% of the cells stained positively in grade 3.  Thus, our results suggest that caspase activation is involved in HCV-associated liver injury.  Moreover, measurement of caspase activity may represent a reliable marker for the early detection of liver damage, which may open up new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in HCV infection.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['measured the activation of effector caspases', 'early detection of liver damage', 'diagnostic and therapeutic strategies'], 'process': ['liver disease', 'cell damage', 'fibrotic reactions', 'Apoptosis', 'caspase activation', 'liver injury', 'HCV infection', 'activation', 'cleavage', 'immunohistochemistry', 'Western blot analysis', 'caspase activation', 'caspase activation', 'viral load', 'low activity', 'caspase-3 activation', 'caspase activation', 'HCV-associated liver injury', 'measurement of caspase activity', 'HCV infection'], 'material': ['Hepatitis C virus', 'HCV', 'proteases', 'liver biopsy specimens', 'caspase-7', 'poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (', 'PARP', 'caspase substrate', 'active truncated, but not the inactive precursor forms', 'caspases', 'PARP', 'liver lobules', 'HCV patients', 'immunoreactive cells', 'surrogate markers', 'serum transaminases', 'biopsy specimens', 'hepatocytes', 'cells']}], 'authors': 'Peter John Victor; Sudarsan Thomas I; Prakash John Anthony J; Varghese George M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Gene ', 'title': 'Liver dysfunction in chronic heart failure: prevalence, characteristics and prognostic significance'}, {'document': ['Pseudomonas aeruginosa possesses a multigene operon that includes phenylalanine hydroxylase (PhhA; phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase, EC 1.14.16.1). phhA encodes PhhA (M(r) = 30,288), phhB (M(r) = 13,333) encodes a homologue of mammalian 4 alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase/homeodomain protein transregulator, and phhC encodes an aromatic aminotransferase (M(r) = 43,237).  The reading frames specifying phhB and phhC overlap by 2 bases.  The P. aeruginosa PhhA appears to contain iron and is pterin dependent.  Unlike the multimeric mammalian hydroxylase, the native P. aeruginosa enzyme is a monomer.  The P. aeruginosa PhhA is homologous with mammalian PhhA, tryptophan hydroxylase, and tyrosine hydroxylase.  Expression of PhhA from its native promoter required phhB.  This may suggest a positive regulatory role for phhB, consistent with the dual catalytic and regulatory roles of the corresponding mammalian homologue.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['dual catalytic and regulatory roles'], 'process': ['phenylalanine hydroxylase', 'phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase', 'tyrosine hydroxylase', 'positive regulatory role'], 'material': ['Pseudomonas aeruginosa', 'multigene operon', 'PhhA', 'phhA', 'PhhA', 'phhB', '4 alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase/homeodomain protein transregulator', 'phhC', 'aromatic aminotransferase', 'phhB', 'phhC', 'P. aeruginosa PhhA', 'iron', 'pterin', 'multimeric mammalian hydroxylase', 'P. aeruginosa enzyme', 'P. aeruginosa PhhA', 'mammalian PhhA', 'tryptophan hydroxylase', 'PhhA', 'phhB.', 'phhB']}], 'authors': 'Balwani, Manisha; Breen, Catherine; Enns, Gregory M.; Deegan, Patrick B.; Honzik, Tomas; Jones, Simon; Kane, John P.; Malinova, Vera; Sharma, Reena; Stock, Eveline O.; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Mechanism of Vibrio cholerae autoinducer-1 biosynthesis'}, {'document': ['This paper presents the first complete purification of the branched chain aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.42) from rat brain cytosol (BCATc).  On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis the enzyme appeared as a single band with a molecular mass of 47 kDa; however, gel exclusion chromatography suggested that BCATc is a dimer.  Comparison of tryptic peptide maps of BCATc and the mitochondrial form of the enzyme (BCATm) indicated that they are different proteins.  Experiments with protein labeling reagents, in particular sulfhydryl reagents, also suggested that there may be some distinct structural differences in BCATc and BCATm.  Nevertheless, BCATc and BCATm showed similar specificities for amino acid and alpha-keto acid substrates.  Both enzymes transaminated branched chain amino acids, their straight chain analogs, L-alloisoleucine and glutamate.  A broader range of alpha-keto acids than amino acids was accepted as substrate including alpha-ketobutyrate and the alpha-keto acid of methionine.  Both enzymes exhibited ping-pong kinetics with apparent Km values for leucine and isoleucine of about 1 and 5 mM for valine, respectively.  Km values for alpha-ketoglutarate ranged from about 0.6 to 3 mM depending on the amino acid substrate.  Polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits against purified BCATc.  BCATc antiserum neutralized branched chain aminotransferase activity in rat brain cytosol but did not affect the activity in a heart mitochondrial extract.  However, immunoblotting showed that BCATc and BCATm do share common epitopes since BCATm antiserum recognized BCATc on the immunoblots.  The tissue distribution of BCATc was examined using BCATc and BCATm antisera.  These data showed that BCATc was found in adult and fetal rat brain, cultured cells from fetal rat brain cortex, ovary, and placenta.  Brain had the highest activity followed by ovary, fetal brain, and placenta.  BCATc was not found in fetal liver, adult rat liver, or a rat hepatoma cell line.  These data provide clear evidence that BCATc, unlike BCATm, is restricted to several highly specialized tissues.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['tissue distribution of'], 'process': ['sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis', 'gel exclusion chromatography', 'protein labeling reagents', 'ping-pong kinetics', 'branched chain aminotransferase activity', 'immunoblotting'], 'material': ['branched chain aminotransferase', 'rat brain cytosol', 'BCATc', 'single band', 'BCATc', 'tryptic peptide maps', 'BCATc', 'mitochondrial form', 'BCATm', 'proteins', 'sulfhydryl reagents', 'BCATc', 'BCATm', 'BCATc', 'BCATm', 'amino acid and alpha-keto acid substrates', 'enzymes', 'branched chain amino acids', 'straight chain analogs', 'L-alloisoleucine', 'glutamate', 'alpha-keto acids', 'amino acids', 'alpha-ketobutyrate', 'alpha-keto acid', 'methionine', 'enzymes', 'leucine', 'isoleucine', 'valine', 'Km values', 'alpha-ketoglutarate', 'amino acid substrate', 'Polyclonal antibodies', 'BCATc', 'BCATc antiserum', 'rat brain cytosol', 'heart mitochondrial extract', 'BCATc', 'BCATm', 'BCATm antiserum', 'BCATc', 'BCATc', 'BCATc', 'and BCATm antisera', 'BCATc', 'adult and fetal rat brain', 'cultured cells', 'ovary', 'Brain', 'ovary', 'placenta', 'BCATc', 'fetal liver', 'adult rat liver', 'rat hepatoma cell line', 'BCATc', 'BCATm', 'highly specialized tissues']}], 'authors': 'Cassimjee, Karim Engelmark; Humble, Maria Svedendahl; Miceli, Valentina; Colomina, Carla Granados; Berglund, Per', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'World journal of critical care medicine ', 'title': 'Characterization of kynurenine aminotransferase III, a novel member of a phylogenetically conserved KAT family'}, {'document': ['Nitrogen source regulation of glutamate synthase activity in Bacillus subtilis occurs at the level of transcription of the gltA and gltB genes, which encode the two subunits of the enzyme.  We show here that transcription of gltA requires the product of gltC, a gene whose transcription is divergent from that of gltA and whose transcriptional control sequences overlap those of gltA. gltC mutants had decreased, aberrantly regulated levels of glutamate synthase activity and decreased gltA mRNA.  The gltC gene product could act in trans to complement both these defects.  In addition, the gltC gene product repressed its own transcription.  The DNA sequence of gltC revealed that its putative product is very similar to a number of positive regulatory proteins from gram-negative bacteria (the LysR family).'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Nitrogen source regulation', 'of glutamate synthase activity', 'glutamate synthase activity', 'gene product', 'repressed its own transcription'], 'material': ['gltA and gltB genes', 'two subunits of the enzyme', 'gltA', 'gltC', 'gltA', 'gltA.', 'gltC', 'gltA', 'gltC', 'gltC', 'DNA sequence', 'gltC', 'positive regulatory proteins', 'gram-negative bacteria', 'LysR']}], 'authors': 'Rezg, Raja; Mornagui, Bessem; El-Fazaa, Saloua; Gharbi, Najoua', 'DOI': '10.1002/hep.26289', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'The reaction of amino-oxyacetate with pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes'}, {'document': ["Some of the many enzymes found in hepatocytes can be measured in the serum and are used as tests of liver function.  We now review the current knowledge of their physiology and pathophysiology and outline their clinical usefulness.  We divide them into two categories: enzymes that primarily reflect cholestasis, such as the alkaline phosphatase, the 5'-nucleotidase, and the gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, and those that primarily reflect hepatocellular necrosis, such as the aminotransferases.  We also briefly discuss several enzymes of more limited usefulness."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['outline their clinical usefulness'], 'process': ['hepatocellular necrosis'], 'material': ['tests of liver function', 'enzymes', 'alkaline phosphatase', 'gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'aminotransferases']}], 'authors': 'Oliveri Filippo; Coco Barbara; Ciccorossi Pietro; Colombatto Piero; Romagnoli Veronica; Cherubini Beatrice; Bonino Ferruccio; Brunetto Maurizia-Rossana', 'DOI': '10.1021/cs200315h', 'journal': 'ACS Catalysis ', 'title': 'Severe scrub typhus infection: Clinical features, diagnostic challenges and management'}, {'document': ["ω-Transaminases are valuable tools in biocatalysis due to their stereospecificity and their broad substrate range.  In the present study, the reaction mechanism of Chromobacterium violaceum ω-transaminase is investigated by means of d. functional theory calcns.  A large active site model is designed based on the recent X-ray crystal structure.  The detailed energy profile for the half-transamination of (S)-1-phenylethylamine [(S)-1-PEA] to acetophenone is calcd. and the involved transition states and intermediates are characterized.  The model suggests that the amino substrate forms an external aldimine with the coenzyme pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP), through geminal diamine intermediates.  The external aldimine is then deprotonated in the rate-detg. step, forming a planar quinonoid intermediate.  A ketimine is then formed, after which a hemiaminal is produced by the addn. of water.  Subsequently, the ketone product is obtained together with pyridoxamine-5'-phosphate (PMP).  In the studied half-transamination reaction the ketone product is kinetically favored.  The mechanism presented here will be valuable to enhance rational and semi-rational design of engineered enzyme variants in the development of ω-transaminase chem."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biocatalysis', 'reaction mechanism', 'enhance rational and semi-rational design'], 'process': ['active site model', 'recent X-ray crystal structure', 'rate-detg. step', 'addn. of water'], 'material': ['ω-Transaminases', 'Chromobacterium violaceum ω-transaminase', 'd. functional theory calcns', '(S)-1-phenylethylamine', '(S)-1-PEA', 'acetophenone', 'amino substrate', 'external aldimine', "coenzyme pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (", 'PLP', 'geminal diamine intermediates', 'external aldimine', 'planar quinonoid intermediate', 'ketimine', 'hemiaminal', 'ketone product', "pyridoxamine-5'-phosphate (", 'PMP', 'ketone product', 'ω-transaminase chem']}], 'authors': 'Kheirandish-Gozal Leila; Sans Capdevila Oscar; Kheirandish Ebrahim; Gozal David', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.crvi.2008.06.004', 'journal': 'Comptes Rendus Biologies ', 'title': 'Clinical effect and safety profile of recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase in patients With cholesteryl ester storage disease'}, {'document': ['Transaminases from Aspergillus fumigatus ((R)-selective, AspFum), Ruegeria pomeroyi ((S)-selective, 3HMU) and Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 ((S)-selective, 3I5T) were immobilized on chitosan with specific activities of 99, 157, and 163 U/g and acceptable yields (54, 21, and 23%, resp.) for glutaraldehyde (GA) immobilization.  Besides GA, also divinylsulfone was used as linker mol. leading to a similar efficient immobilization for two enzymes, GibZea and NeoFis, whereas GA was superior in the other cases.  Storage of the GA-immobilized enzymes for one month resulted in increased relative activities between 120 and 180%.  The thermal stability was improved, esp. for the GA-immobilized AspFum compared to the free enzyme after incubation for 4 h at 60 (10% vs. 235% residual activity).  Esp. after incubation of AspFum (free or immobilized) for 2 h at 50 a strongly increased activity was obsd. (up to 359% of the initial activity).  This effect was studied in more detail, revealing that one heat activation prior and one after immobilization increased the overall immobilization efficiency.  Recycling of the immobilized ATAs resulted only in a small redn. of activity after four batches.  Asym. synthesis of (R)- or (S)-1-methyl-3-phenylpropylamine from the prostereogenic ketone using isopropylamine (IPA) as amino donor was applied with conversions up to 50% (AspFum) or 75% (3HMU).  Except for NeoFis, all immobilized ATAs showed higher conversions compared to the free enzyme.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['immobilization.', 'immobilization', 'Storage of the', 'thermal stability', 'incubation', 'heat activation', 'immobilization', 'immobilization', 'Recycling', 'synthesis of', 'conversions'], 'material': ['Ruegeria pomeroyi', '3HMU', 'Rhodobacter sphaeroides', 'chitosan', 'glutaraldehyde', 'GA', 'GA', 'divinylsulfone', 'linker mol', 'enzymes', 'GibZea', 'NeoFis', 'GA', 'GA-immobilized enzymes', 'GA-immobilized AspFum', 'AspFum', 'ATAs', 'a small redn.', 'prostereogenic ketone', 'isopropylamine', 'IPA', 'amino donor', 'AspFum', 'NeoFis', 'ATAs', 'free enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Tilling, Lindsey; Townsend, Sue; David, Joel', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'World journal of gastroenterology ', 'title': 'Active Site Quantification of an ω-Transaminase by Performing a Half Transamination Reaction'}, {'document': ['Novel enzyme activities and chemoenzymatic reaction concepts have considerably expanded the biocatalytic toolbox for chiral amine synthesis.  Creating new activities or extending the scope of existing enzymes by protein engineering is a common trend in biocatalysis and in chiral amine synthesis specifically.  For instance, an amine dehydrogenase that allows for the direct asymmetric amination of ketones with ammonia was created by mutagenesis of an l-amino acid dehydrogenase.  Another trend in chiral amine chemistry is the development of strategies allowing for the synthesis of secondary amines.  For example the smart choice of substrates for amine transaminases provided access to secondary amines by chemoenzymatic reactions.  Furthermore novel biocatalysts for the synthesis of secondary amines such as imine reductases and Pictet-Spenglerases have been identified and applied.  Recent examples showed that the biocatalytic amine synthesis is emerging from simple model reactions towards industrial scale preparation of pharmaceutical relevant substances, for instance, as shown in the synthesis of a Janus kinase 2 inhibitor using an amine transaminase.  A comparison of important process parameters such as turnover number and space-time yield demonstrates that biocatalytic strategies for asymmetric reductive amination are maturing and can already compete with established chemical methods.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Novel enzyme activities', 'chiral amine synthesis', 'Creating new activities or extending the scope of existing', 'chiral amine chemistry', 'smart choice of substrates', 'industrial scale preparation of pharmaceutical relevant substances', 'comparison of important process parameters'], 'process': ['chemoenzymatic reaction concepts', 'protein engineering', 'chiral amine synthesis', 'asymmetric amination of ketones with ammonia', 'amine transaminases', 'chemoenzymatic reactions', 'synthesis of secondary amines', 'biocatalytic amine synthesis', 'simple model reactions', 'synthesis of a Janus kinase 2 inhibitor', 'biocatalytic strategies', 'asymmetric reductive amination', 'chemical methods'], 'material': ['enzymes', 'biocatalysis', 'amine dehydrogenase', 'l-amino acid dehydrogenase', 'secondary amines', 'secondary amines', 'biocatalysts', 'imine', 'Pictet-Spenglerases have', 'amine transaminase']}], 'authors': 'Baker Paul R S; Cramer Scott D; Kennedy Martha; Assimos Dean G; Holmes Ross P', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Chest ', 'title': 'Biochemical evaluation of hepatic damage in subchronic exposure to malathion in rats: Effect on superoxide dismutase and catalase activities using native PAGE'}, {'document': ['Jatropha curcas is a multipurpose and drought-resistant tree, widespread throughout tropics and subtropics.  Its seeds are rich in oil and protein.  It is being promoted as a biofuel plant.  Jatropha kernel meal obtained after oil extn. is an excellent source of protein [580-660 g kg-1 crude protein (CP)].  However, the presence of toxic and antinutritional constituents restricts its use in fish feed.  Jatropha kernel meal was detoxified.  Using Oncorhynchus mykiss juveniles, a 12-wk expt. was conducted to evaluate the nutritional quality of detoxified Jatropha kernel meal (DJKM).  Oncorhynchus mykiss juveniles (36, av. wt. 4.2 ± 0.4 g) were distributed into three groups with 12 replicates and fed isonitrogenous (CP 450 g kg-1) diets: control [fish meal (FM)-based protein], J50 and J62.5 (50% and 62.5% of fishmeal protein replaced by DJKM).  Growth performance, apparent lipid conversion, hepatosomatic index, nutrients and energy digestibilities; efficiency of digestible nutrients and energy; and glucose and creatinine levels in blood were statistically similar (P > 0.05) for control and J50 but were higher (P < 0.05) than for J62.5.  Opposite trend was obsd. for phosphorus, sodium, albumin and total protein in blood.  Feed conversion ratio, protein efficiency ratio, protein productive value, energy retention, gastro somatic index, muscle lipid peroxide; and red and white blood cells, haematocrit, Hb, mean corpuscular vol., mean corpuscular Hb, mean corpuscular Hb concn.; alk. phosphatase and alanine transaminases activity, globulin, total bilirubin, blood urea nitrogen, calcium and potassium in blood and lysozyme activity in serum did not differ significantly among the groups.  Intestinal enzyme activities; and plasma and muscle cholesterol levels for control were higher (P < 0.05) than for DJKM groups, while opposite trend was obsd. for relative intestinal length (mm g-1).  Conclusively, performance of J50 group was similar to control group and, thus, is recommended as the optimal diet for rainbow trout.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['evaluate the nutritional quality'], 'process': ['oil extn', 'apparent lipid conversion', 'Feed conversion ratio', 'protein efficiency ratio', 'protein productive value', 'energy retention', 'gastro somatic index', 'muscle lipid peroxide', 'alk. phosphatase and alanine transaminases activity', 'lysozyme activity', 'Intestinal enzyme activities'], 'material': ['Jatropha curcas', 'tree', 'oil', 'biofuel plant', 'Jatropha kernel meal', 'protein', 'crude protein', 'CP', 'toxic and antinutritional constituents', 'fish feed', 'Jatropha kernel meal', 'Oncorhynchus mykiss juveniles', 'detoxified Jatropha kernel meal', 'DJKM', 'Oncorhynchus mykiss juveniles', 'control', 'fish meal', 'J50', '50% and 62.5', 'fishmeal protein', 'DJKM', 'nutrients', 'efficiency of digestible nutrients and energy', 'glucose', 'phosphorus', 'sodium', 'albumin', 'red and white blood cells', 'haematocrit', 'Hb', 'mean corpuscular vol', 'mean corpuscular Hb', 'mean corpuscular Hb concn', 'globulin', 'total bilirubin', 'blood urea nitrogen', 'calcium', 'potassium', 'plasma and muscle cholesterol', 'control group', 'rainbow trout']}], 'authors': 'Rastogi, Ravi; Srivastava, Arvind Kumar; Rastogi, Anil Kumar', 'DOI': '10.2165/00044011-200626020-00001', 'journal': 'Clinical Drug Investigation ', 'title': 'Liver stiffness in the hepatitis B virus carrier: a non-invasive marker of liver disease influenced by the pattern of transaminases'}, {'document': ['Gamma-aminobutyrate transaminase (GABA-T) catalyses the breakdown of GABA to succinic semialdehyde.  In this report, the previously identified Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heyhn GABA-T (AtGABA-T) was characterized in more detail.  Full-length AtGABA-T contains an N-terminal 36 amino acid long targeting pre-sequence (36 amino acids) that is both sufficient and necessary for targeting the enzyme to mitochondria.  Removal of the pre-sequence encoding this N-terminal targeting domain and co-expression of the resulting truncated AtGABA-T cDNA with the GroES/EL molecular chaperone complex in Escherichia coli yielded good recovery of the soluble recombinant proteins.  Activity assays indicated that purified recombinant GABA-T has both pyruvate- and glyoxylate-dependent activities, but cannot utilize 2-oxoglutarate as amino acceptor.  Kinetic parameters for glyoxylate- and pyruvate-dependent GABA-T activities were similar, with physiologically relevant affinities.  Assays of GABA-T activity in cell-free leaf extracts from wild-type Arabidopsis and two knockout mutants in different genetic backgrounds confirmed that the native enzyme possesses both pyruvate- and glyoxylate-dependent activities.  The GABA-T transcript was present throughout the plant, but its expression was highest in roots and increased as a function of leaf development.  A GABA-T with dual functions suggests the potential for interaction between GABA metabolism and photorespiratory glyoxylate production.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['-', 'T', 'targeting the enzyme', 'Removal of the pre-sequence', 'Activity assays', 'Kinetic parameters', 'Assays of GABA-T activity', 'knockout mutants', 'leaf development', 'GABA metabolism', 'photorespiratory glyoxylate production'], 'material': ['Gamma-aminobutyrate', 'GABA', 'GABA', 'succinic semialdehyde', 'Arabidopsis thaliana', 'AtGABA', '-', 'T', 'Full-length', 'AtGABA', '-', '36 amino acids', 'N-terminal targeting domain', 'AtGABA-T', 'GroES/EL molecular chaperone complex', 'Escherichia coli', 'soluble recombinant proteins', 'purified recombinant GABA-T', 'glyoxylate', '2-oxoglutarate', 'glyoxylate- and pyruvate-dependent GABA-T activities', 'cell-free leaf extracts', 'glyoxylate', 'GABA-T transcript', 'roots', 'GABA-T']}], 'authors': 'He J; Magarvey N; Piraee M; Vining L C', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'American journal of physiology. Cell physiology ', 'title': 'Elevated serum aminotransferase levels in children at risk for obstructive sleep apnea'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Venous leg ulcers are responsible for more than half of all lower extremity ulcerations.  Significant interest has been focused on understanding the physiologic basis on which patients fail to heal with standard therapy.  OBJECTIVE:  This study uses complementary DNA microarray analysis of tissue samples from healing and nonhealing venous leg ulcers to identify the genetic expression profiles from these dichotomous populations.  METHODS:  Ulcer size and chronicity, factors that have been identified as prognostic indicators for healing, were used to distribute venous leg ulcers as healing versus nonhealing.  Punch biopsy samples were obtained from the wound edge and wound bed of all venous leg ulcers.  The top 15 genes with differential expression greater than 2-fold between the two populations of wounds (P < .05) were reported.  RESULTS:  Significant differences were demonstrated in the expression of a diverse collection of genes, with particular differences demonstrated by genes coding for structural epidermal proteins, genes associated with hyperproliferation and tissue injury, and transcription factors.  LIMITATIONS:  Small sample size may mitigate potential clinical implications of findings.  CONCLUSIONS:  The genetic expression profiles displayed here may have implications for the development of novel therapies for chronic venous leg ulcers, and may also serve as prognostic indicators for wound healing.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['understanding the physiologic basis on which patients fail to heal with standard therapy', 'identify the genetic expression profiles', 'distribute venous leg ulcers', 'development of novel therapies for chronic venous leg ulcers', 'wound healing'], 'process': ['complementary DNA microarray analysis', 'differential expression', 'Small sample size', 'genetic expression profiles'], 'material': ['Venous leg ulcers', 'lower extremity ulcerations', 'tissue samples', 'factors that have been identified as prognostic indicators for healing', 'Punch biopsy samples', 'wound edge', 'wound bed', 'venous leg ulcers', 'top 15 genes', 'structural epidermal proteins', 'transcription factors', 'prognostic indicators']}], 'authors': 'Patel N; Pierson D L; Jensen R A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Pharmacology & Toxicology ', 'title': 'Methotrexate and hepatic toxicity in rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis'}, {'document': ['KAT (kynurenine aminotransferase) II is a primary enzyme in the brain for catalysing the transamination of kynurenine to KYNA (kynurenic acid).  KYNA is the only known endogenous antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor.  The enzyme also catalyses the transamination of aminoadipate to alpha-oxoadipate; therefore it was initially named AADAT (aminoadipate aminotransferase).  As an endotoxin, aminoadipate influences various elements of glutamatergic neurotransmission and kills primary astrocytes in the brain.  A number of studies dealing with the biochemical and functional characteristics of this enzyme exist in the literature, but a systematic assessment of KAT II addressing its substrate profile and kinetic properties has not been performed.  The present study examines the biochemical and structural characterization of a human KAT II/AADAT.  Substrate screening of human KAT II revealed that the enzyme has a very broad substrate specificity, is capable of catalysing the transamination of 16 out of 24 tested amino acids and could utilize all 16 tested alpha-oxo acids as amino-group acceptors.  Kinetic analysis of human KAT II demonstrated its catalytic efficiency for individual amino-group donors and acceptors, providing information as to its preferred substrate affinity.  Structural analysis of the human KAT II complex with alpha-oxoglutaric acid revealed a conformational change of an N-terminal fraction, residues 15-33, that is able to adapt to different substrate sizes, which provides a structural basis for its broad substrate specificity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['catalysing the transamination of kynurenine to KYNA', 'systematic assessment of KAT II', 'preferred substrate affinity', 'structural basis for its broad substrate specificity'], 'process': ['KAT', 'kynurenine aminotransferase', 'catalyses the transamination of aminoadipate to alpha-oxoadipate', 'AADAT', 'aminoadipate aminotransferase', 'Substrate screening', 'catalysing the transamination of 16 out of 24 tested amino', 'Kinetic analysis', 'Structural analysis', 'conformational change', 'adapt to different substrate sizes'], 'material': ['kynurenic acid', 'KYNA', 'endogenous antagonist', 'N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor', 'aminoadipate', 'human KAT II', 'human KAT', 'alpha-oxo acids', 'amino-group acceptors', 'human KAT', 'amino-group donors', 'human KAT II', 'alpha-oxoglutaric', 'N-terminal fraction']}], 'authors': 'Kane J F; Holmes W M; Jensen R A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Microbiology ', 'title': 'Glycolate and glyoxylate metabolism in HepG2 cells'}, {'document': ['The catabolic pathways of branched-chain amino acids have two common steps.  The first step is deamination catalyzed by the vitamin B(6)-dependent branched-chain aminotransferase isozymes (BCATs) to produce branched-chain alpha-keto acids (BCKAs).  The second step is oxidative decarboxylation of the BCKAs mediated by the branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase enzyme complex (BCKD complex).  The BCKD complex is organized around a cubic core consisting of 24 lipoate-bearing dihydrolipoyl transacylase (E2) subunits, associated with the branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase/dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (E3), BCKD kinase, and BCKD phosphatase.  In this study, we provide evidence that human mitochondrial BCAT (hBCATm) associates with the E1 decarboxylase component of the rat or human BCKD complex with a K(D) of 2.8 microM.  NADH dissociates the complex.  The E2 and E3 components do not interact with hBCATm.  In the presence of hBCATm, k(cat) values for E1-catalyzed decarboxylation of the BCKAs are enhanced 12-fold.  Mutations of hBCATm proteins in the catalytically important CXXC center or E1 proteins in the phosphorylation loop residues prevent complex formation, indicating that these regions are important for the interaction between hBCATm and E1.  Our results provide evidence for substrate channeling between hBCATm and BCKD complex and formation of a metabolic unit (termed branched-chain amino acid metabolon) that can be influenced by the redox state in mitochondria.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['catabolic pathways of branched-chain amino acids', 'deamination', 'oxidative decarboxylation', 'dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase', 'Mutations of hBCATm proteins', 'substrate channeling', 'formation of a metabolic unit', 'redox'], 'material': ['vitamin B(6)-dependent branched-chain aminotransferase isozymes', 'BCATs', 'branched-chain alpha-keto', 'BCKAs', 'BCKAs', 'branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase enzyme complex', 'BCKD complex', 'BCKD complex', 'cubic core', '24 lipoate-bearing dihydrolipoyl transacylase', 'E2', 'branched-chain alpha-keto', 'BCKD kinase', 'BCKD phosphatase', 'human mitochondrial BCAT', 'hBCATm', 'E1 decarboxylase component', 'rat or human BCKD complex', 'NADH', 'E2 and E3 components', 'hBCATm', 'hBCATm', 'BCKAs', 'CXXC center', 'E1 proteins', 'phosphorylation loop residues', 'hBCATm', 'hBCATm', 'BCKD complex', 'branched-chain amino acid metabolon', 'mitochondria']}], 'authors': 'Wu H C; Wu T C', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Biochemical changes induced in liver and serum of aflatoxin B1-treated male wistar rats. Preventive effect of picroliv'}, {'document': ['Folate deficiency leads to neural tube defects and other human diseases, and is a global health problem.  Because plants are major folate sources for humans, we have sought to enhance plant folate levels (biofortification).  Folates are synthesized from pteridine, p-aminobenzoate (PABA), and glutamate precursors.  Previously, we increased pteridine production in tomato fruit up to 140-fold by overexpressing GTP cyclohydrolase I, the first enzyme of pteridine synthesis.  This strategy increased folate levels 2-fold, but engineered fruit were PABA-depleted.  We report here the engineering of fruit-specific overexpression of aminodeoxychorismate synthase, which catalyzes the first step of PABA synthesis.  The resulting fruit contained an average of 19-fold more PABA than controls.  When transgenic PABA- and pteridine-overproduction traits were combined by crossing, vine-ripened fruit accumulated up to 25-fold more folate than controls.  Folate accumulation was almost as high (up to 15-fold) in fruit harvested green and ripened by ethylene-gassing, as occurs in commerce.  The accumulated folates showed normal proportions of one-carbon forms, with 5-methyltetrahydrofolate the most abundant, but were less extensively polyglutamylated than controls.  Folate concentrations in developing fruit did not change in controls, but increased continuously throughout ripening in transgenic fruit.  Pteridine and PABA levels in transgenic fruit were >20-fold higher than in controls, but the pathway intermediates dihydropteroate and dihydrofolate did not accumulate, pointing to a flux constraint at the dihydropteroate synthesis step.  The folate levels we achieved provide the complete adult daily requirement in less than one standard serving.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['global health problem', 'enhance plant folate levels', 'engineering of fruit-specific overexpression of aminodeoxychorismate synthase'], 'process': ['Folate deficiency', 'biofortification', 'increased pteridine production', 'overexpressing GTP cyclohydrolase I', 'pteridine synthesis', 'increased folate', 'PABA synthesis', 'accumulation was almost as high (', 'ethylene-gassing', 'flux constraint', 'dihydropteroate synthesis step'], 'material': ['plants', 'folate sources', 'Folates', 'pteridine', 'p-aminobenzoate', 'PABA', 'glutamate precursors', 'tomato fruit', 'fruit', 'PABA', 'fruit', 'PABA', 'transgenic PABA- and pteridine-overproduction traits', 'vine-ripened fruit', 'folate', 'Folate', 'fruit', 'folates', 'one-carbon forms', '5-methyltetrahydrofolate', 'Folate', 'developing fruit', 'transgenic fruit', 'Pteridine', 'PABA', 'transgenic fruit', 'pathway intermediates', 'dihydropteroate', 'dihydrofolate', 'folate']}], 'authors': 'Stiles Ashlee R; Lee Hane; Simon Mariella T; Stover Alexander; Eftekharian Shaya; Partynski Kate; Chang Richard; Khanlou Negar; Wang Hanlin L; Magaki Shino; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'The gene cluster for chloramphenicol biosynthesis in Streptomyces venezuelae ISP5230 includes novel shikimate pathway homologues and a monomodular non-ribosomal peptide synthetase gene'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND/AIMS:  T cell immune responses play key roles in the pathogenesis of viral hepatitis, and innate immunity is known to be also activated during this process, however, the effects of innate immunity activation on T cell-mediated hepatitis remain obscure.  Here we examined the effect of the activation of NK cells induced by toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) ligand, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly I:C), on concanavalin A (Con A)-induced T cell-mediated liver injury.  METHODS:  Mice received nontoxic intraperitoneal poly I:C injection before Con A intravenous administration.  The liver injury was examined by measuring serum transaminase and pathology, and the function of hepatic lymphocytes was detected by FACS analysis.  RESULTS:  Poly I:C pretreatment protected against T cell-mediated hepatitis, as evidenced by decreased mortality, hepatic necrosis, serum transaminase levels and inflammatory cytokines (IL-4, IFN-gamma).  The protective effect of poly I:C was diminished in NK-depleted mice, which could be partially restored by adoptive transfer of NK cells.  Administration of poly I:C caused NKT and T cell apoptosis via enhancing expression of Fas protein on these cells and expression of Fas ligand on NK cells.  CONCLUSIONS:  These findings suggest that activation of NK cells by poly I:C prevents Con A-induced T cell-hepatitis via downregulation of T/NKT cells and subsequent reduction of inflammatory cytokines.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pathogenesis of viral hepatitis', 'Mice received', 'enhancing expression of'], 'process': ['T cell immune responses', 'innate immunity', 'innate immunity activation', 'T cell-mediated hepatitis', 'activation of NK cells', 'toll-like receptor 3', 'TLR3) ligand', 'intravenous administration', 'liver injury', 'FACS analysis', 'T cell-mediated hepatitis', 'hepatic necrosis', 'T cell apoptosis', 'activation of NK cells', 'downregulation of', 'reduction of inflammatory cytokines'], 'material': ['polyinosinic-polycytidylic', 'poly I', 'C', 'concanavalin', 'Con', 'serum transaminase', 'hepatic lymphocytes', 'Poly I:C', 'serum transaminase levels', 'inflammatory cytokines', 'IFN', 'poly I:C', 'NK-depleted mice', 'adoptive transfer', 'NK cells', 'poly I:C', 'NKT', 'Fas protein', 'Fas ligand', 'NK cells', 'poly I:C', 'T/NKT cells']}], 'authors': 'Dounay Amy B; Tuttle Jamison B; Verhoest Patrick R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Dual enzymatic routes to L-tyrosine and L-phenylalanine via pretyrosine in Pseudomonas aeruginosa'}, {'document': ["In Lactococcus lactis, which is widely used as a starter in the cheese industry, the first step of aromatic and branched-chain amino acid degradation is a transamination which is catalyzed by two major aminotransferases.  We have previously purified and characterized biochemically and genetically the aromatic aminotransferase, AraT.  In the present study, we purified and studied the second enzyme, the branched-chain aminotransferase, BcaT.  We cloned and sequenced the corresponding gene and used a mutant, along with the luciferase gene as the reporter, to study the role of the enzyme in amino acid metabolism and to reveal the regulation of gene transcription.  BcaT catalyzes transamination of the three branched-chain amino acids and methionine and belongs to class IV of the pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent aminotransferases.  In contrast to most of the previously described bacterial BcaTs, which are hexameric, this enzyme is homodimeric.  It is responsible for 90% of the total isoleucine and valine aminotransferase activity of the cell and for 50 and 40% of the activity towards leucine and methionine, respectively.  The original role of BcaT was probably biosynthetic since expression of its gene was repressed by free amino acids and especially by isoleucine.  However, in dairy strains, which are auxotrophic for branched-chain amino acids, BcaT functions only as a catabolic enzyme that initiates the conversion of major aroma precursors.  Since this enzyme is still active under cheese-ripening conditions, it certainly plays a major role in cheese flavor development."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['role of the enzyme', 'amino acid metabolism', 'regulation of gene transcription', 'cheese flavor development'], 'process': ['aromatic and branched-chain amino acid degradation', 'transamination', 'transamination of the three branched-chain amino acids', 'expression of its gene was repressed', 'cheese-ripening conditions'], 'material': ['Lactococcus', 'cheese industry', 'two major aminotransferases', 'aromatic aminotransferase', 'AraT.', 'branched-chain aminotransferase', 'BcaT.', 'a mutant', 'luciferase gene', 'BcaT', 'methionine', "pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent aminotransferases", 'bacterial BcaTs', 'leucine', 'methionine', 'BcaT', 'free amino acids', 'isoleucine', 'dairy strains', 'BcaT', 'catabolic enzyme', 'major aroma precursors']}], 'authors': 'Frohman, Elliot M.; Brannon, Kristen; Racke, Michael K.; Hawker, Kathleen', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular genetics and metabolism ', 'title': 'Metabolic interlock. The dual function of a folate pathway gene as an extra-operonic gene of tryptophan biosynthesis'}, {'document': ['Onion (Allium cepa) powder and capsaicin, the pungent principle of red pepper (Capsicum annum) were added at 3 g% and 15 mg%, resp., to the diet of Wistar rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus for 8 wk.  The presence of renal lesions was assessed by the extent and quality of proteinuria and by the leaching of renal tubular enzymes into the urine.  Renal integrity was assessed by measuring the activities of several key enzymes of carbohydrate metab. and of polyol pathway, transaminases, and ATPases in the kidney tissue.  Enzymuria, proteinuria, and activities of kidney ATPases in diabetic rats suggested that dietary onion had beneficial effects on the progression of renal lesions.  The findings were corroborated by kidney histol. examn.  Capsaicin had no favorable influence on renal pathol.  This beneficial influence of onion feeding on diabetic nephropathy may be mediated by onion ability to lower blood cholesterol levels and to decreased lipid peroxidn.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Renal integrity', 'carbohydrate metab.'], 'process': ['renal lesions', 'leaching of renal tubular enzymes into the urine', 'proteinuria', 'activities of kidney ATPases', 'dietary onion', 'kidney histol. examn', 'lower blood cholesterol levels', 'decreased lipid peroxidn'], 'material': ['Onion', 'Allium cepa', 'capsaicin', 'pungent principle', 'red pepper', 'Capsicum annum', 'Wistar rats', 'ATPases', 'Capsaicin', 'onion', 'onion']}], 'authors': 'Zhang Xiaoxuan; Roe S Mark; Hou Yanwen; Bartlam Mark; Rao Zihe; Pearl Laurence H; Danpure Christopher J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of medicinal chemistry ', 'title': 'Isolation and characterization of a glucosamine-requiring mutant of Escherichia coli K-12 defective in glucosamine-6-phosphate synthetase'}, {'document': ['Background-In some infants with liver disease, 3-oxo-Δ4 bile acids are the major bile acids in urine, a phenomenon attributed to reduced activity of the Δ4-3-oxosteroid 5β-reductase required for synthesis of chenodeoxycholic acid and cholic acid.  These patients form a heterogeneous group.  Many have a known cause of hepatic dysfunction and plasma concns. of chenodeoxycholic acid and cholic acid that are actually greater than those of the 3-oxo-Δ4 bile acids.  It is unlikely that these patients have a primary genetic deficiency of the 5β-reductase enzyme.  Aims-To document the bile acid profile, clin. phenotype, and response to treatment of an infant with cholestasis, increased plasma concns. of 3-oxo-Δ4 bile acids, low plasma concns. of chenodeoxycholic acid and cholic acid, and no other identifiable cause of liver disease.  Patients-This infant was compared with normal infants and infants with cholestasis of known cause.  Methods-Anal. of bile acids by liq. secondary ionization mass spectrometry and gas chromatog. - mass spectrometry,.  Results-The plasma bile acid profile of the patient was unique.  She had chronic cholestatic liver disease assocd. with malabsorption of vitamins D and E and a normal γ-glutamyltranspeptidase when the transaminases were increased.  The liver disease failed to improve with ursodeoxycholic acid but responded to a combination of chenodeoxycholic acid and cholic acid.  Conclusion-Treatment of primary 5β-reductase deficiency requires the use of bile acids that inhibit cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['document the', 'bile acid profile', 'clin. phenotype', 'Anal.', 'plasma bile acid profile', 'Treatment of primary 5β-reductase deficiency'], 'process': ['liver disease', 'reduced activity', 'hepatic dysfunction', 'primary genetic deficiency of the 5β-reductase enzyme', 'cholestasis', 'increased plasma concns. of 3-oxo-Δ4 bile acids', 'liver disease', 'secondary ionization mass spectrometry', 'gas chromatog. - mass spectrometry', 'chronic cholestatic liver disease', 'malabsorption of vitamins D and E', 'liver disease', 'cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase'], 'material': ['3-oxo-Δ4 bile acids', 'bile acids', 'Δ4-3-oxosteroid 5β-reductase', 'chenodeoxycholic acid', 'cholic', 'plasma concns', 'chenodeoxycholic acid', 'cholic', '3-oxo-Δ4 bile', 'low plasma concns.', 'chenodeoxycholic acid', 'cholic', 'normal infants', 'infants with cholestasis', 'bile acids', 'γ-glutamyltranspeptidase', 'ursodeoxycholic', 'chenodeoxycholic acid', 'cholic', 'bile acids']}], 'authors': 'Bantel H; Lugering A; Poremba C; Lugering N; Held J; Domschke W; Schulze-Osthoff K', 'DOI': '10.1097/00002826-200403000-00006', 'journal': 'Clinical Neuropharmacology ', 'title': 'Mutations in TFAM, encoding mitochondrial transcription factor A, cause neonatal liver failure associated with mtDNA depletion'}, {'document': ["Persistent viremia after clinical or subclinical hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is believed to occur in patients with chronic hepatitis C, but little is known about the duration of HCV replication in patients with acute hepatitis who have recovered or the relation of HCV viremia with the kinetics of antibodies to HCV (anti-HCV).  We tested HCV-RNA and anti-HCV in serial serum samples from 41 patients with posttransfusion non-A, non-B hepatitis, followed for an average of 6 years after transfusion.  Serum HCV-RNA was measured by nested polymerase chain reaction, which used primers from the 5' untranslated region of the HCV genome.  Anti-HCV were tested with first- and second-generation enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA 1 and ELISA 2), and with a second-generation recombinant immunoblot assay.  Of the 41 patients, 10 recovered and 31 progressed to chronic liver disease.  HCV-RNA was detected in serum before or simultaneously with the onset of hepatitis in all cases, and lasted between 2 and 6 weeks in 5 of the 10 patients who recovered, whereas it persisted for the entire follow-up period in every case with chronic hepatitis and in the remaining 5 patients with self-limiting hepatitis.  Anti-HCV were detected with ELISA 2 in the first serum sample, with raised serum transaminases in 57% of patients, but in only 6% with ELISA 1.  In the sample obtained 1 month after the onset of hepatitis, anti-HCV were detected with ELISA 2 in 94% of patients, but in 34% with the ELISA 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Persistent viremia', 'HCV) infection', 'HCV replication', 'acute hepatitis', 'HCV viremia', 'transfusion', 'nested polymerase chain reaction', 'first- and second-generation enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays', 'ELISA', 'ELISA', 'second-generation recombinant immunoblot assay', 'chronic hepatitis', 'self-limiting hepatitis', 'ELISA', 'raised serum transaminases', 'ELISA', 'ELISA', 'ELISA'], 'material': ['chronic hepatitis', 'HCV', 'anti-HCV', 'HCV-RNA', 'HCV', 'serial serum samples', 'Serum HCV-RNA', 'HCV genome', 'Anti-HCV', 'HCV-RNA', 'Anti-HCV', 'serum sample', 'anti-HCV']}], 'authors': 'Zhao G; Xia T; Song J; Jensen R A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of molecular biology ', 'title': 'Challenges and Opportunities in the Discovery of New Therapeutics Targeting the Kynurenine Pathway'}, {'document': ['The formation of delta-aminolevulinate from glutamate 1-semialdehyde (GSA) is catalyzed by glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase (EC 5.4.3.8).  The active form of the barley enzyme appears to be a dimer of identical subunits with a molecular mass of 46 kDa.  From the purified enzyme, amino acid sequences of the N-terminal ends of the mature protein as well as an internal peptide were determined.  DNA primers deduced from these peptide sequences were used to amplify with the polymerase chain reaction a cDNA sequence encoding part of the enzyme.  Screening a cDNA library with this DNA fragment identified a full-length clone encoding the 49,540-Da precursor of the GSA aminotransferase.  The transit peptide for chloroplast import consists of 34 amino acids.  GSA aminotransferase and a precursor form were expressed on a multicopy plasmid in Escherichia coli.  Both recombinant gene products reacted with an antibody against the barley GSA aminotransferase.  Active barley GSA aminotransferase expressed in E. coli was shown to be active in assays of bacterial cell extracts.  As a gene symbol for barley GSA aminotransferase, Gsa is proposed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Active barley GSA aminotransferase'], 'process': ['polymerase chain reaction', 'Screening a cDNA library', 'chloroplast import'], 'material': ['delta-aminolevulinate', 'glutamate 1-semialdehyde', 'GSA', 'glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase', 'barley enzyme', 'dimer of identical subunits', 'enzyme', 'amino acid sequences of the N-terminal ends', 'mature protein', 'DNA primers', 'cDNA sequence', 'DNA fragment', 'full-length clone', '49,540-Da precursor', 'GSA aminotransferase', 'transit peptide', 'GSA aminotransferase', 'precursor form', 'a multicopy plasmid', 'recombinant gene products', 'barley GSA aminotransferase', 'bacterial cell extracts', 'barley GSA aminotransferase', 'Gsa']}], 'authors': 'Hall T R; Wallin R; Reinhart G D; Hutson S M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'Mycophenolate mofetil in multiple sclerosis'}, {'document': ["Ramakrishnan, T. (Yale University, New Haven, Conn.), and Edward A.  Adelberg.  Regulatory mechanisms in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine.  I.  Genetic derepression of enzyme formation.  J.  Bacteriol. 87:566-573. 1964.-A total of 60 mutants of Escherichia coli K-12 resistant to 10(-2)m valine were isolated from the valine-sensitive F' strain AB1206.  Conjugation experiments showed that in five of these mutants the valine-resistance locus is closely linked to the structural genes governing isoleucine-valine biosynthesis.  In these five valine-resistant mutants, three enzymes of the isoleucine-valine pathway were found to be coordinately derepressed: l-threonine deaminase, dihydroxy acid dehydrase, and transaminase B.  Two other enzymes of this pathway, the condensing enzyme and the reductoisomerase, were unaffected.  The mutation from valine-sensitivity to valine-resistance appears to have altered an operator locus, because the derepressed state is dominant over the repressed state in diploids heterozygous for the valine-resistance locus.  The valine-resistant mutants excrete isoleucine into the medium.  The significance of these findings with respect to the valine-sensitivity of E. coli K-12 and the regulation of the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine by this organism are discussed."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine', 'isoleucine-valine biosynthesis', 'mutation from valine-sensitivity to valine-resistance', 'valine-sensitivity'], 'process': ['Regulatory mechanisms', 'Genetic derepression of enzyme formation', 'Conjugation experiments', 'isoleucine-valine pathway', 'excrete isoleucine into the medium', 'regulation of the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine'], 'material': ['valine', "valine-sensitive F'", 'valine-resistance locus', 'structural genes', 'valine-resistant mutants', 'l-threonine deaminase', 'dihydroxy acid dehydrase', 'transaminase', 'condensing enzyme', 'reductoisomerase', 'valine-resistance locus', 'valine-resistant mutants', 'E. coli K-12']}], 'authors': 'Bohannon D E; Sonenshein A L', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Crystal structure of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase and the relationship between genotype and enzymatic phenotype in primary hyperoxaluria type 1'}, {'document': ['Amine transaminases (ATAs) are powerful enzymes for the stereospecific prodn. of chiral amines.  However, the synthesis of amines incorporating more than one stereocenter is still a challenge.  We developed a cascade synthesis to access optically active 3-alkyl-substituted chiral amines by combining two asym. synthesis steps catalyzed by an enoate reductase and ATAs.  The ATA wild type from Vibrio fluvialis showed only modest enantioselectivity (14% de) in the amination of (S)-3-methylcyclohexanone, the product of the enoate-reductase-catalyzed reaction step.  However, by protein engineering, we created two variants with substantially improved diastereoselectivities: variant Leu56Val exhibited a higher R selectivity (66% de) whereas the Leu56Ile substitution caused a switch in enantiopreference to furnish the S-configured diastereomer (70% de).  Addn. of 30% DMSO further improved the selectivity and facilitated the synthesis of (1R,3S)-1-amino-3-methylcyclohexane with 89% de at 87% conversion.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['stereospecific prodn. of chiral amines', 'synthesis of amines'], 'process': ['Amine transaminases', 'cascade synthesis', 'combining two asym. synthesis steps', 'amination', 'protein engineering', 'Leu56Ile substitution', 'switch in enantiopreference', 'Addn.', 'selectivity', 'conversion'], 'material': ['ATAs', 'optically active 3-alkyl-substituted chiral amines', 'enoate reductase', 'ATAs', 'ATA', 'Vibrio fluvialis', '(S)-3-methylcyclohexanone', 'enoate-reductase-catalyzed reaction step', 'with substantially improved diastereoselectivities:', 'Leu56Val', 'S-configured diastereomer', '(1R,3S)-1-amino-3-methylcyclohexane', '89% de']}], 'authors': 'Reichling J J; Kaplan M M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Caspase activation correlates with the degree of inflammatory liver injury in chronic hepatitis C virus infection'}, {'document': ['Fatty livers occur in up to 20% of potential liver donors and increase cellular injury during the ischemia/reperfusion phase, so any intervention that could enable a better outcome of grafts for liver transplantation would be very useful.  The effect of melatonin on liver ischemia/reperfusion injury in a rat model of obesity and hepatic steatosis has been investigated.  Forty fa/fa Zucker rats were divided in 4 groups. 3 groups were subjected to 35 min of warm hepatic ischemia and 36 h of reperfusion.  One exptl. group remained untreated and 2 were given 10 mg/kg melatonin i.p. or orally.  Another group was sham-operated.  Plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and hepatic content of ATP, MDA, hydroxyalkenals, NOx metabolites, antioxidant enzyme activity, caspase-9 and DNA fragmentation were detd. in the liver.  The expression of iNOS, eNOS, Bcl2, Bax, Bad and AIF were detd. by RT-PCR Melatonin was effective at decreasing liver injury by both ways as assessed by liver transaminases, markers of apoptosis, of oxidative stress and improved liver ATP content.  Melatonin administration decreased the activities or levels of most of the parameters measured in a beneficial way, and our study identified also some of the mechanisms of protection.  We conclude that administration of melatonin improved liver function, as well as markers of pro/antioxidant status and apoptosis following ischemia/reperfusion in obese rats with fatty liver.  These data suggest that this substance could improve outcome in patients undergoing liver transplantation who receive a fatty liver implant and suggest the need of clin. trials with it in liver transplantation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['rat model of obesity', 'decreasing liver injury', 'improve outcome', 'clin. trials with it'], 'process': ['Fatty livers', 'cellular injury', 'liver ischemia/reperfusion injury', 'hepatic steatosis', 'warm hepatic ischemia', 'ALT', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'AST', 'antioxidant enzyme activity', 'DNA fragmentation', 'RT-PCR', 'oxidative stress', 'liver ATP content', 'administration of melatonin', 'liver function', 'liver transplantation'], 'material': ['liver donors', 'melatonin', 'fa/fa Zucker rats', 'melatonin', 'sham-operated', 'Plasma alanine', 'hepatic content', 'ATP', 'MDA', 'hydroxyalkenals', 'NOx metabolites', 'iNOS', 'eNOS', 'Bcl2', 'Bax', 'Bad', 'AIF', 'Melatonin', 'liver transaminases', 'Melatonin', 'obese rats', 'fatty liver', 'fatty liver implant']}], 'authors': 'Cassimjee, Karim Engelmark; Manta, Bianca; Himo, Fahmi', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa possesses homologues of mammalian phenylalanine hydroxylase and 4 alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase/DCoH as part of a three-component gene cluster'}, {'document': ['Hyperpolarized 13C NMR is an emerging technique for in vivo enzyme assays on clin. relevant time scales of a few minutes.  The method yields ample signal from a non-equil. spin polarization in a substrate of choice and monitors the chem. identity of products via their chem. shifts.  Previous in vivo applications of the method have focused on pyruvate metab. for monitoring fluxes through the lactate dehydrogenase and pyruvate dehydrogenase catalyzed reactions.  Clearly, a more diverse set of hyperpolarized substrates is needed to monitor a more diverse set of enzymes in vivo.  Here, the hyperpolarization of ten different (13C)amino acids as prospective biomarkers for transaminase assays is described.  Transaminases are central in a variety of pathol. conditions including cancer, infections and liver damage, though std. serum tests of transaminase activity suffer from large variations in seemingly healthy individuals.  Non-invasive measurement of the substrate flux through the alanine transaminase catalyzed reaction is demonstrated in vivo.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['in vivo enzyme assays', 'monitoring fluxes through the', 'Transaminases'], 'process': ['Hyperpolarized 13C NMR', 'non-equil. spin polarization', 'chem. shifts', 'pyruvate dehydrogenase catalyzed reactions', 'monitor a more diverse set of enzymes', 'hyperpolarization of ten different (13C)amino acids', 'transaminase assays', 'liver damage', 'serum tests of transaminase activity', 'Non-invasive measurement of the substrate flux through the', 'alanine transaminase catalyzed reaction'], 'material': ['substrate', 'pyruvate metab', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'hyperpolarized substrates']}], 'authors': 'Mallin, H.; Hoehne, M.; Bornscheuer, U. T.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Digestive diseases and sciences ', 'title': 'Branched chain aminotransferase isoenzymes. Purification and characterization of the rat brain isoenzyme'}, {'document': ['Combinatorial overexpression of aromatic amino acid biosynthesis (AAAB) genes in the L-tyrosine producing Escherichia coli strains T1 and T2 was employed to search for AAAB reactions limiting L-tyrosine production.  All AAAB genes except aroG and tyrA, which were substituted by their feedback resistant derivatives in the host strains, were cloned and overexpressed.  A total of 72 different strains overexpressing various AAAB gene combinations were generated and from those strains with improved phenotype, enzymatic bottlenecks of the AAAB pathway could be inferred.  The two major gene overexpression targets for increased L-tyrosine production in E. coli were ydiB and aroK, coding for a shikimate dehydrogenase and a shikimate kinase, respectively, and the combination of ydiB and aroK for overexpression resulted in the best L-tyrosine producing strains in this study, yielding 45% for strain T1 and 26% for strain T2, respectively, higher L-tyrosine titers.  Interestingly, overexpression studies with combinations of more than one gene revealed that new gene targets could be identified when overexpessed together with other genes but not alone as single gene overexpression.  For example, tyrB encoding the last enzyme of the AAAB pathway, an aromatic amino acid transaminase, improved L-tyrosine production significantly when co-overexpressed together with ydiB or aroK, but not when overexpressed alone.  It is also noteworthy that E. coli T1, which generally yielded less L-tyrosine, was amenable to greater improvements than strain T2, i.e.  E. coli T1 exhibited generally more space for phenotype improvement.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['search for AAAB reactions', 'enzymatic bottlenecks of the AAAB pathway'], 'process': ['Combinatorial overexpression', 'aromatic amino acid biosynthesis', 'AAAB', 'overexpressing various AAAB gene combinations', 'overexpression', 'overexpression studies', 'single gene overexpression', 'AAAB pathway', 'L-tyrosine production', 'overexpressed'], 'material': ['L-tyrosine producing Escherichia coli strains', 'AAAB genes', 'aroG', 'tyrA', 'feedback resistant derivatives', 'strains', 'ydiB', 'aroK', 'shikimate dehydrogenase', 'shikimate kinase', 'ydiB', 'aroK', 'L-tyrosine producing', 'L-tyrosine', 'tyrB', 'aromatic amino acid transaminase', 'ydiB', 'aroK', 'E. coli', 'T1']}], 'authors': 'Kohls Hannes; Steffen-Munsberg Fabian; Hohne Matthias', 'DOI': '10.1039/C5OB00690B', 'journal': 'Organic & Biomolecular Chemistry ', 'title': 'Positive regulation of glutamate biosynthesis in Bacillus subtilis'}, {'document': ['OBJECTIVES:  AZD0865 is a gastric acid-suppressing agent that has a rapid onset of action and long duration of effect.  This double-blind, randomized, multicenter study investigated the efficacy and safety of AZD0865 in the treatment of patients with nonerosive reflux disease (NERD).  METHODS:  Patients with troublesome heartburn for at least 6 months and no evidence of erosions at endoscopy were randomized to receive AZD0865 (25, 50, or 75 mg/day) or esomeprazole 20 mg/day, for 4 wk.  Throughout the treatment period, patients reported the presence and intensity of heartburn and other NERD symptoms twice daily using an electronic diary.  Twenty-four-hour ambulatory intraesophageal/intragastric pH monitoring was performed in a subset of patients on day 14.  RESULTS:  A total of 1,469 patients were randomized.  The median time to sustained absence of heartburn (for 7 consecutive days) was approximately 12 days for all treatment groups and did not differ significantly for any of the AZD0865 doses or compared with esomeprazole.  There were no significant differences among treatment groups in the cumulative incidence of sustained absence of heartburn during 4 wk treatment (i.e., 65-70%).  The percentage of time for which intragastric pH was greater than 4 was significantly greater for AZD0865 75 mg/day compared with esomeprazole 20 mg (75% vs 60%, P < 0.05).  AZD0865 was generally well tolerated although reversible elevations of liver transaminases occurred in some patients receiving the agent.  CONCLUSIONS:  AZD0865 did not provide clinical benefit over esomeprazole 20 mg in the management of patients with NERD.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treatment of patients with nonerosive reflux disease', 'management of patients with NERD'], 'process': ['NERD', 'NERD symptoms', 'electronic diary', 'intraesophageal/intragastric pH monitoring', 'elevations of liver transaminases'], 'material': ['AZD0865', 'gastric acid-suppressing agent', 'double-blind, randomized, multicenter study', 'efficacy and safety of', 'AZD0865', 'Patients with troublesome heartburn', 'AZD0865', 'esomeprazole', 'AZD0865', 'esomeprazole', 'AZD0865', 'esomeprazole', 'AZD0865', 'AZD0865', 'esomeprazole']}], 'authors': 'Kumar, V.; Makkar, H. P. S.; Becker, K.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.05.015', 'journal': 'Journal of Biotechnology ', 'title': 'Clinical use of serum enzymes in liver disease'}, {'document': ['Plants are capable to de novo synthesize the essential amino acids leucine, isoleucine and valine.  Studies in recent years, however, also revealed that plants have the potential to degrade leucine or may be all of the branched-chain amino acids.  One of the enzymes participating in both biosynthesis and degradation is the branched-chain aminotransferase, which is in Arabidopsis thaliana encoded by a small gene family with six transcribed members.  We have now studied the steady state mRNA levels by quantitative RT-PCR and promoter activities of these genes with promoter::glucuronidase reporter gene constructs in transgenic plants.  The gene encoding the mitochondrial isoenzyme (Atbcat-1) is expressed in all tissues with predominant transcription in seedlings and leaves.  Surprisingly the plastid located proteins (AtBCAT-2, -3 and -5) are expressed at rather low levels with only Atbcat-3 transcribed in all tissues.  The most likely cytoplasmic-located AtBCAT-4 and AtBCAT-6 are mainly expressed in tissues associated with transport function and in meristematic tissues, respectively.  A detailed characterization of the enzyme activity and substrate specificity of the mitochondrial AtBCAT-1 enzyme revealed the potential of this enzyme to initiate degradation of all branched-chain amino acids.  In addition alpha-aminobutyrate and alpha-ketobutyrate as well as methionine and alpha-ketomethylthiobutyrate are identified as substrates.  This suggests that AtBCAT-1 and potentially other members of this protein family may influence methionine levels and may play an important role in the metabolism of the nonprotein amino acid alpha-aminobutyrate.  The consequences of these substrate specificities for bioplastic production and methionine homeostasis are discussed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['steady state mRNA levels', 'metabolism of the nonprotein amino acid alpha-aminobutyrate'], 'process': ['de novo synthesize the essential amino acids', 'biosynthesis', 'degradation', 'branched-chain aminotransferase', 'Arabidopsis thaliana', 'quantitative RT-PCR', 'promoter activities', 'bioplastic production', 'methionine homeostasis'], 'material': ['Plants', 'leucine', 'isoleucine', 'valine', 'plants', 'leucine', 'branched-chain amino acids', 'enzymes', 'a small gene family with six transcribed members', 'transgenic plants', 'mitochondrial isoenzyme', 'Atbcat-1', 'seedlings', 'leaves', 'plastid located proteins', 'AtBCAT-2', 'Atbcat-3', 'cytoplasmic-located', 'AtBCAT-4', 'AtBCAT-6', 'meristematic tissues', 'mitochondrial AtBCAT-1 enzyme', 'alpha-aminobutyrate', 'alpha-ketobutyrate', 'methionine', 'alpha-ketomethylthiobutyrate', 'AtBCAT-1', 'methionine']}], 'authors': 'Clark Shawn M; Di Leo Rosa; Dhanoa Preetinder K; Van Cauwenberghe Owen R; Mullen Robert T; Shelp Barry J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Current opinion in chemical biology ', 'title': 'A quantum chemical study of the ω-transaminase reaction mechanism'}, {'document': ["The genetics and mechanistic enzymology of biotin biosynthesis have been the subject of much investigation in the last decade, owing to the interest for biotin production by fermentation, on the one hand, and for the design of inhibitors with potential herbicidal properties, on the other hand.  Four enzymes are involved in the synthesis of biotin from its two precursors, alanine and pimeloyl-CoA.  They are now well-characterized and the X-ray structures of the first three have been published. 8-Amino-7-oxopelargonic acid synthase is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) enzyme, very similar to other acyl-CoA alpha-oxoamine synthases, and its detailed mechanism has been determined.  The origin of its specific substrate, pimeloyl-CoA, however, is not completely established.  It could be produced by a modified fatty acid pathway involving a malonyl thioester as the starter. 7,8-Diaminopelargonic acid (DAPA) aminotransferase, although sharing sequence and folding homologies with other transaminases, is unique as it uses S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) as the NH2 donor.  The mechanism of dethiobiotin synthethase is also now well understood.  It catalyzes the formation of the ureido ring via a DAPA carbamate activated with ATP.  On the other hand, the mechanism of the last enzyme, biotin synthase, which has long raised a very puzzling problem, is only starting to be unraveled and appears indeed to be very complex.  Biotin synthase belongs to the family of AdoMet-dependent enzymes that reductively cleave AdoMet into a deoxyadenosyl radical, and it is responsible for the homolytic cleavage of C-H bonds.  A first radical formed on dethiobiotin is trapped by the sulfur donor, which was found to be the iron-sulfur (Fe-S) center contained in the enzyme, and cyclization follows in a second step.  Two important features come from these results: (1) a new role for an Fe-S center has been revealed, and (2) biotin synthase is not only a catalyst but also a substrate for the reaction.  Lipoate synthase, which catalyzes the formation of two C-S bonds from octanoic acid, has a very high sequence similarity with biotin synthase.  Although no in vitro enzymology has been carried out with lipoate synthase, the sequence homology as well as the results of in vivo studies support the conclusion that both enzymes are strongly mechanistically related."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['genetics and mechanistic enzymology of biotin biosynthesis', 'design of inhibitors', 'detailed mechanism has been determined', 'mechanism of dethiobiotin synthethase', 'mechanism of the last enzyme'], 'process': ['production by', 'fermentation', 'synthesis of biotin from its two precursors', 'PLP) enzyme', 'modified fatty acid pathway', 'biotin synthase', 'Biotin synthase', 'reductively cleave AdoMet', 'homolytic cleavage of C-H bonds', 'cyclization', 'formation of two C-S bonds', 'in vitro enzymology', 'in vivo studies'], 'material': ['biotin', 'enzymes', 'alanine', 'pimeloyl-CoA.', 'X-ray structures', '8-Amino-7-oxopelargonic acid synthase', "pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (", 'acyl-CoA alpha-oxoamine', 'pimeloyl-CoA', 'malonyl thioester', '7,8-Diaminopelargonic', 'DAPA', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'AdoMet', 'NH2 donor', 'ureido ring', 'DAPA carbamate', 'ATP', 'AdoMet-dependent enzymes', 'radical', 'dethiobiotin', 'sulfur donor', 'iron-sulfur (Fe-S) center', 'enzyme', 'Fe-S center', 'biotin synthase', 'catalyst', 'Lipoate synthase', 'octanoic acid', 'biotin', 'synthase', 'lipoate synthase', 'enzymes']}], 'authors': 'Charles Carlos A; Tomic-Canic Marjana; Vincek Vladimir; Nassiri Mehdi; Stojadinovic Olivera; Eaglstein William H; Kirsner Robert S', 'DOI': '10.1111/j.1365-2095.2010.00825.x', 'journal': 'Aquaculture Nutrition ', 'title': 'Immobilization of (R)- and (S)-amine transaminases on chitosan support and their application for amine synthesis using isopropylamine as donor'}, {'document': ['Liver function after transplantation is detd. by the quality of the donor organ and the influences of preservation, flush, and reperfusion injury.  In this regard, cell death (apoptosis) plays an important role in organ preservation and rejection.  Therefore, we examd. the possibility of genetic modification of the liver graft with a recombinant adenovirus vector encoding the Bcl-2 gene to reduce apoptosis during the preservation time.  Liver grafts from C57Bl/6 mice were procured and preserved using std. techniques.  A replication defective adenovirus vector (ΔE1) contg. the human Bcl-2 gene (AdCMVhBcl-2) was developed in our lab.  An adenovirus vector encoding an irrelevant gene (Escherichia coli β-galactosidase) was used as a control.  Each mouse received 1×109 plaque forming units administered i.v. 48 h before the liver procurement.  Analyses of liver enzyme activities were detd. in the preservation soln.  Apoptosis in liver biopsies was detd. by DNA fragmentation with an in situ histochem. assay.  Immunohistochem. anal. and RT-PCR confirmed the expression of hBcl-2 in the grafts.  Grafts from livers expressing hBcl-2 showed significant redn. of the aspartame amino transferase (AST) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release compared with grafts from the control groups.  After rewarming, significant cytoprotection was also obsd. in grafts from animals treated with AdCMVhBcl-2.  Histol. anal. correlated with the hepatocellular injury detd. with transaminases and LDH in the preservation soln.  Significant redn. in the no. of apoptotic cells was obsd. in grafts expressing hBcl-2.  We have demonstrated a novel approach to reducing the preservation injury to liver grafts with the human Bcl-2 gene.  This approach may allow a longer preservation time, potentially reduce the incidence of primary nonfunction, decrease the immunogenicity of the cold injured organ, and increase the safer use of "marginal" liver grafts.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Liver function after transplantation', 'organ preservation and rejection', 'Each mouse', 'Histol. anal', 'reducing the preservation injury', 'decrease the immunogenicity of the cold injured organ'], 'process': ['detd', 'cell death', 'apoptosis', 'genetic modification', 'reduce apoptosis', 'std. techniques', 'liver procurement', 'Analyses of liver enzyme activities', 'Apoptosis', 'DNA fragmentation', 'in situ histochem. assay', 'Immunohistochem. anal', 'RT-PCR', 'aspartame amino transferase', 'AST', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'LDH', 'rewarming', 'hepatocellular injury'], 'material': ['donor organ', 'liver graft', 'recombinant adenovirus vector', 'Liver grafts', 'C57Bl/6 mice', 'replication defective adenovirus vector', 'human Bcl-2 gene', 'AdCMVhBcl-2', 'adenovirus vector', 'Escherichia coli β-galactosidase', 'preservation soln', 'liver biopsies', 'hBcl-2', 'hBcl-2', 'transaminases', 'LDH', 'preservation soln', 'apoptotic cells', 'hBcl-2', 'liver grafts', 'human Bcl-2 gene', '"marginal" liver grafts']}], 'authors': 'Han Qian; Cai Tao; Tagle Danilo A; Robinson Howard; Li Jianyong', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of experimental botany ', 'title': 'Recent achievements in developing the biocatalytic toolbox for chiral amine synthesis'}, {'document': ['Aromatic aminotransferase II, product of the ARO9 gene, catalyzes the first step of tryptophan, phenylalanine, and tyrosine catabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  ARO9 expression is under the dual control of specific induction and nitrogen source regulation.  We have here identified UASaro, a 36-bp upstream element necessary and sufficient to promote transcriptional induction of reporter gene expression in response to tryptophan, phenylalanine, or tyrosine.  We then isolated mutants in which UASaro-mediated ARO9 transcription is partially or totally impaired.  Mutations abolishing ARO9 induction affect a gene called ARO80 (YDR421w), coding for a Zn2Cys6 family transcription factor.  A sequence highly similar to UASaro was found upstream from the YDR380w gene encoding a homolog of bacterial indolepyruvate decarboxylase.  In yeast, this enzyme is postulated to catalyze the second step of tryptophan catabolism to tryptophol.  We show that ARO9 and YDR380w (named ARO10) have similar patterns of transcriptional regulation and are both under the positive control of Aro80p.  Nitrogen regulation of ARO9 expression seems not directly to involve the general factor Ure2p, Gln3p, Nil1p, Uga43p, or Gzf3p.  ARO9 expression appears, rather, to be mainly regulated by inducer exclusion.  Finally, we show that Gap1p, the general amino acid permease, and Wap1p (Ycl025p), a newly discovered inducible amino acid permease with broad specificity, are the main aromatic amino acid transporters for catabolic purposes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['tyrosine catabolism', 'specific induction', 'nitrogen source regulation', 'ARO9 transcription', 'indolepyruvate decarboxylase', 'tryptophan catabolism', 'Nitrogen regulation', 'inducer exclusion'], 'material': ['Aromatic aminotransferase', 'ARO9 gene', 'tryptophan', 'phenylalanine', 'ARO9', 'UASaro', '36-bp upstream element', 'tryptophan', 'phenylalanine', 'tyrosine', 'UASaro', 'ARO9', 'ARO80', 'Zn2Cys6 family transcription factor', 'UASaro', 'yeast', 'enzyme', 'tryptophol', 'ARO9', 'ARO10', 'Aro80p', 'ARO9', 'general factor', 'Ure2p', 'Gln3p', 'Nil1p', 'Uga43p', 'Gzf3p', 'ARO9', 'Gap1p', 'amino acid permease', 'Wap1p', 'Ycl025p', 'inducible amino acid permease', 'aromatic amino acid transporters']}], 'authors': 'Islam Mohammad Mainul; Wallin Reidar; Wynn R Max; Conway Myra; Fujii Hisao; Mobley James A; Chuang David T; Hutson Susan M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology ', 'title': 'Nutritional, physiological and haematological responses in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) juveniles fed detoxified Jatropha curcas kernel meal'}, {'document': ['Determination of enzyme-specific activities revealed that GLY1 encodes a threonine aldolase (TA) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  A knock-out mutant auxotrophic for glycine lacked detectable activity.  After transformation with YEp24GLY1 glycine prototrophy was restored and TA-specific activity was 16-fold higher than in the wild type.  Growth experiments using glucose as the sole carbon source showed that GLY1 is more important for glycine biosynthesis than SHM1 and SHM2 encoding alternative serine hydroxymethyltransferases.  On ethanol as carbon source simultaneous disruption of GLY1, SHM1 and SHM2 did not lead to glycine auxotrophy because glycine biosynthesis proceeds via alanine glyoxylate aminotransferase.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Determination of enzyme-specific activities', 'threonine aldolase', 'transformation', 'Growth experiments', 'glycine biosynthesis', 'glycine biosynthesis'], 'material': ['GLY1', 'TA', 'Saccharomyces cerevisiae', 'knock-out mutant', 'YEp24GLY1 glycine prototrophy', 'TA', 'glucose', 'GLY1', 'SHM1', 'SHM2', 'alternative serine hydroxymethyltransferases', 'ethanol', 'GLY1', 'SHM1', 'SHM2', 'glycine auxotrophy', 'alanine glyoxylate aminotransferase']}], 'authors': 'Diaz de la Garza Rocio I; Gregory Jesse F 3rd; Hanson Andrew D', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Bioscience reports ', 'title': 'Biochemical characterization, mitochondrial localization, expression, and potential functions for an Arabidopsis gamma-aminobutyrate transaminase that utilizes both pyruvate and glyoxylate'}, {'document': ['The effects of different ammonia concns. (20-2000 μg NH3 L-1) on GOT, GPT, and glutamic acid dehydrogenase (GlDH) enzyme activities and ATP level in blood plasma of common carp were studied under four sets of conditions.  Ammonia during the 96-h treatment significantly increased blood serum GOT, GPT and GlDH activities, as well as decreased ATP level independent of environmental conditions.  Increases were as high as 300-400%.  These values differed significantly at higher temp. and pH, and at lower oxygen levels.  The enzyme GPT was very sensitive to environmental changes.  The potential role of sublethal ammonia concns. in the pathogenesis of gill necrosis in carp is discussed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['potential role of sublethal ammonia concns', 'pathogenesis of gill necrosis'], 'process': ['glutamic acid dehydrogenase', 'GlDH', 'ATP level', 'ATP'], 'material': ['ammonia', 'GOT', 'GPT', 'blood plasma', 'common carp', 'Ammonia', 'GOT', 'GPT', 'GlDH', 'GPT', 'carp']}], 'authors': 'Wang Jing; Sun Rui; Wei Haiming; Dong Zhongjun; Gao Bin; Tian Zhigang', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'A gene signature of nonhealing venous ulcers: potential diagnostic markers'}, {'document': ['Mutants of Escherichia coli K-12 were isolated in which the synthesis of the following, normally repressible enzymes of aromatic biosynthesis was constitutive: 3-deoxy-d-arabinoheptulosonic acid 7-phosphate (DAHP) synthetases (phe and tyr), chorismate mutase T-prephenate dehydrogenase, and transaminase A.  In the wild type, DAHP synthetase (phe) was multivalently repressed by phenylalanine plus tryptophan, whereas DAHP synthetase (tyr), chorismate mutase T-prephenate dehydrogenase, and transaminase A were repressed by tyrosine.  DAHP synthetase (tyr) and chorismate mutase T-prephenate dehydrogenase were also repressed by phenylalanine in high concentration (10(-3)m).  Besides the constitutive synthesis of DAHP synthetase (phe), the mutants had the same phenotype as strains mutated in the tyrosine regulatory gene tyrR.  The mutations causing this phenotype were cotransducible with trpA, trpE, cysB, and pyrF and mapped in the same region as tyrR at approximately 26 min on the chromosome.  It is concluded that these mutations may be alleles of the tyrR gene and that synthesis of the enzymes listed above is controlled by this gene.  Chorismate mutase P and prephenate dehydratase activities which are carried on a single protein were repressed by phenylalanine alone and were not controlled by tyrR.  Formation of this protein is presumed to be controlled by a separate, unknown regulator gene.  The heat-stable phenylalanine transaminase and two enzymes of the common aromatic pathway, 5-dehydroquinate synthetase and 5-dehydroquinase, were not repressible under the conditions studied and were not affected by tyrR.  DAHP synthetase (trp) and tryptophan synthetase were repressed by tryptophan and have previously been shown to be under the control of the trpR regulatory gene.  These enzymes also were unaffected by tyrR.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Mutants of Escherichia coli K-12 were isolated'], 'process': ['synthesis of the following, normally repressible enzymes of aromatic biosynthesis', 'DAHP synthetase', 'constitutive synthesis', 'synthesis of the enzymes', 'prephenate dehydratase activities', 'DAHP synthetase', 'tryptophan synthetase', 'trpR regulatory gene'], 'material': ['3-deoxy-d-arabinoheptulosonic acid 7-phosphate', 'DAHP', 'phe', 'tyr', 'chorismate mutase T-prephenate dehydrogenase', 'transaminase', 'DAHP synthetase', 'phe', 'phenylalanine', 'tryptophan', 'tyr', 'chorismate mutase T-prephenate dehydrogenase', 'transaminase', 'tyrosine', 'DAHP synthetase', 'tyr', 'chorismate mutase T-prephenate dehydrogenase', 'phenylalanine', 'DAHP synthetase', 'phe', 'tyrR.', 'trpA', 'trpE', 'cysB', 'pyrF', 'tyrR', 'tyrR', 'Chorismate mutase P', 'phenylalanine', 'tyrR.', 'heat-stable phenylalanine transaminase', '5-dehydroquinate synthetase', '5-dehydroquinase', 'tyrR.', 'trp', 'tryptophan', 'tyrR.']}], 'authors': 'Yvon M; Chambellon E; Bolotin A; Roudot-Algaron F', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Substrate specificity and structure of human aminoadipate aminotransferase/kynurenine aminotransferase II'}, {'document': ['During the last decade the use of ω-transaminases has been identified as a very powerful method for the preparation of optically pure amines from the corresponding ketones.  Their immense potential for the preparation of chiral amines, together with their ease of use in combination with existing biocatalytic methods, have made these biocatalysts a competitor to any chemical methodology for (asymmetric) amination.  An increasing number of examples, especially from industry, shows that this biocatalytic technology outmaneuvers existing chemical processes by its simple and flexible nature.  In the last few years numerous publications and patents on synthetic routes, mainly to pharmaceuticals, involving ω-transaminases have been published.  The review gives an overview of the application of ω-transaminases in organic synthesis with a focus on active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and the developments during the last few years.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['preparation of optically pure amines'], 'process': ['preparation of chiral amines', 'biocatalytic methods', 'chemical methodology', 'asymmetric) amination', 'biocatalytic technology', 'chemical processes', 'organic synthesis'], 'material': ['ω-transaminases', 'ketones', 'biocatalysts', 'pharmaceuticals', 'ω-transaminases', 'ω-transaminases', 'active pharmaceutical ingredients', 'APIs']}], 'authors': 'Babu, Poda Suresh; Srinivasan, Krishnapura', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of hepatology ', 'title': 'A novel branched-chain amino acid metabolon. Protein-protein interactions in a supramolecular complex'}, {'document': ['Amine transaminases have recently gained a lot of attention for the synthesis of chiral amines.  Using (R)-selective amine transaminase from Aspergillus terreus (AT-ATA) as a transaminase model, in silico design was applied employing B-factor and folding free energy (ΔΔGfold) calcns.  Mutation sites were selected by targeting flexible regions with the greatest B-factors, and were substituted with amino acids that were detd. by folding free energy calcns. (ΔΔGfold < 0) to be more rigid than the original ones.  By site-directed mutagenesis, we obtained four stabilized mutants (T130M, T130F, E133F and D134L) with improved stability from 19 candidates.  Compared to the wild type, the best single mutant (T130M) showed an increase in thermal stability with a nearly 2.2-fold improvement of half-life (t1/2) at 40 °C and a 3.5 °C higher T10 min 1/2.  The optimum catalytic temp. of T130F was increased by 10 °C.  In addn., the T130M/E133F double mutant displayed the largest shift in thermostability with 3.3-fold improvement of t1/2 at 40 °C and a 5.0 °C higher T10 min 1/2.  Modeling anal. showed that new hydrophobic interactions and hydrogen bonds might contribute to the obsd. thermostability improvement.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['synthesis of chiral amines', 'Mutation sites'], 'process': ['Amine transaminases', 'transaminase model', 'in silico design', 'targeting flexible regions with the greatest B-factors', 'folding free energy', 'calcns', 'site-directed mutagenesis', 'stabilized mutants', 'Modeling anal', 'obsd'], 'material': ['(R)-selective amine transaminase', 'AT-ATA', 'B-factor', 'amino acids', 'T130', 'T130F', 'T130', 'M', 'T130M/E133F double mutant', 'hydrogen bonds']}], 'authors': 'Clayton, P. T.; Mills, K. A.; Johnson, A. W.; Barabino, A.; Marazzi, M. G.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Applied and environmental microbiology ', 'title': 'Folate biofortification of tomato fruit'}, {'document': ['Multiple nodes in the one-carbon metabolism pathway play important regulatory roles in cancer cell growth and tumorigenesis.  The specific biological functions of metabolic enzymes in regulating the signaling pathways that are associated with tumor cell growth and survival, however, remain unclear.  Our current study found that phosphoserine aminotransferase 1 (PSAT1), an enzyme catalyzing serine biosynthesis, was significantly up-regulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and was involved in the regulation of E2F activity.  Loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrated that PSAT1 promoted cell cycle progression, cell proliferation and tumorigenesis.  Mechanistic study suggested that elevated PSAT1 led to inhibition of cyclin D1 degradation and subsequently an alteration in Rb-E2F pathway activity, which in turn enhanced G1 progression and proliferation of NSCLC cells.  Moreover, phosphorylation of cyclin D1 at threonine 286 by GSK-3β was required for PSAT1-induced blockage of cyclin D1 degradation.  We also found that the activity of p70S6K mediated the effects of PSAT1 on GSK-3β phosphorylation and cyclin D1 degradation.  We further identified that PSAT1 was over-expressed in NSCLC and predicted poor clinical outcome of patients with the disease.  Correlation analysis showed that PSAT1 expression positively correlated with the levels of phosphorylated GSK-3β, cyclin D1 and phosphorylated Rb in NSCLC primary tumors.  These findings uncover a mechanism for constitutive activation of E2F via which unrestrained cell cycle progression occurs in NSCLC and may represent a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['cancer cell growth and tumorigenesis', 'specific biological functions', 'constitutive activation of E2F'], 'process': ['one-carbon metabolism pathway', 'regulating the signaling pathways', 'serine biosynthesis', 'regulation of E2F activity', 'elevated PSAT1', 'alteration in Rb-E2F pathway activity', 'phosphorylation', 'PSAT1-induced blockage of cyclin D1 degradation', 'p70S6K', 'GSK-3β phosphorylation', 'cyclin D1 degradation', 'Correlation analysis', 'unrestrained cell cycle progression'], 'material': ['metabolic enzymes', 'phosphoserine aminotransferase', 'PSAT1', 'non-small cell lung cancer', 'NSCLC', 'PSAT1', 'NSCLC cells', 'PSAT1', 'PSAT1', 'NSCLC', 'PSAT1', 'phosphorylated GSK-3β', 'cyclin D1', 'Rb', 'NSCLC primary tumors', 'NSCLC', 'prognostic biomarker']}], 'authors': 'Barrera J M; Bruguera M; Ercilla M G; Gil C; Celis R; Gil M P; del Valle Onorato M; Rodes J; Ordinas A', 'DOI': '10.1016/S0955-2863(99)00031-5', 'journal': 'Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Poly I:C prevents T cell-mediated hepatitis via an NK-dependent mechanism'}, {'document': ['OBJECTIVE:  Asymmetric dimethylarginine is an endogenous inhibitor of NO synthesis that may mediate cardiovascular disease.  Alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase-2 (AGXT2) has been proposed to degrade asymmetric dimethylarginine.  We investigated the significance of AGXT2 in methylarginine metabolism in vivo and examined the effect of this enzyme on blood pressure.  METHODS AND RESULTS:  In isolated mouse kidney mitochondria, we show asymmetric dimethylarginine deamination under physiological conditions.  We demonstrate increased asymmetric dimethylarginine, reduced NO, and hypertension in an AGXT2 knockout mouse.  We provide evidence for a role of AGXT2 in methylarginine metabolism in humans by demonstrating an inverse relationship between renal (allograft) gene expression and circulating substrate levels and an association between expression and urinary concentrations of the product.  Finally, we examined data from a meta-analysis of blood pressure genome-wide association studies.  No genome-wide significance was observed, but taking a hypothesis-driven approach, there was a suggestive association between the T allele at rs37369 (which causes a valine-isoleucine substitution and altered levels of AGXT2 substrate) and a modest increase in diastolic blood pressure (P=0.0052).  CONCLUSIONS:  Although the effect of variation at rs37369 needs further study, these findings suggest that AGXT2 is an important regulator of methylarginines and represents a novel mechanism through which the kidney regulates blood pressure.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['mediate cardiovascular disease', 'examined the effect of this enzyme', 'methylarginine metabolism'], 'process': ['NO synthesis', 'methylarginine metabolism', 'asymmetric dimethylarginine deamination', 'increased asymmetric dimethylarginine', 'reduced NO', 'hypertension', 'renal (allograft) gene expression', 'meta-analysis', 'hypothesis-driven approach', 'valine-isoleucine substitution', 'regulates blood pressure'], 'material': ['Asymmetric dimethylarginine', 'Alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase-2', 'AGXT2', 'AGXT2', 'isolated mouse kidney mitochondria', 'AGXT2 knockout mouse', 'AGXT2', 'circulating substrate', 'AGXT2 substrate', 'AGXT2']}], 'authors': 'Grimm B', 'DOI': '10.1136/gut.38.4.623', 'journal': 'Gut ', 'title': 'Characterization and role of the branched-chain aminotransferase (BcaT) isolated from Lactococcus lactis subsp. cremoris NCDO 763'}, {'document': ['Glyoxylate detoxification is an important function of human peroxisomes.  Glyoxylate is a highly reactive molecule, generated in the intermediary metabolism of glycine, hydroxyproline and glycolate mainly.  Glyoxylate accumulation in the cytosol is readily transformed by lactate dehydrogenase into oxalate, a dicarboxylic acid that cannot be metabolized by mammals and forms tissue-damaging calcium oxalate crystals.  Alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase, a peroxisomal enzyme in humans, converts glyoxylate into glycine, playing a central role in glyoxylate detoxification.  Cytosolic and mitochondrial glyoxylate reductase also contributes to limit oxalate production from glyoxylate.  Mitochondrial hydroxyoxoglutarate aldolase is an important enzyme of hydroxyproline metabolism.  Genetic defect of any of these enzymes of glyoxylate metabolism results in primary hyperoxalurias, severe human diseases in which toxic levels of oxalate are produced by the liver, resulting in progressive renal damage.  Significant advances in the pathophysiology of primary hyperoxalurias have led to better diagnosis and treatment of these patients, but current treatment relies mainly on organ transplantation.  It is reasonable to expect that recent advances in the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of disease will result into better targeted therapeutic options in the future.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['hydroxyproline metabolism', 'severe human diseases', 'pathophysiology of primary hyperoxalurias'], 'process': ['Glyoxylate detoxification', 'intermediary metabolism', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'peroxisomal enzyme', 'glyoxylate detoxification', 'limit oxalate production from glyoxylate', 'Genetic defect', 'glyoxylate metabolism', 'primary hyperoxalurias', 'renal damage', 'organ transplantation'], 'material': ['Glyoxylate', 'glycine', 'hydroxyproline', 'glycolate', 'Glyoxylate', 'cytosol', 'oxalate', 'dicarboxylic acid', 'tissue-damaging calcium oxalate crystals', 'Alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'glyoxylate', 'glycine', 'Cytosolic and mitochondrial glyoxylate reductase', 'Mitochondrial hydroxyoxoglutarate aldolase', 'toxic levels of oxalate']}], 'authors': 'RAMAKRISHNAN T; ADELBERG E A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'Renal lesions in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats maintained on onion and capsaicin containing diets'}, {'document': ['Green Chemistry or Sustainable Chemistry is defined by the Environmental Protection Agency as "the design of chemical products that reduce or eliminate the use of hazardous substances" In recent years there is a greater societal expectation that chemists and chemical engineers should produce greener and more sustainable chemical processes and it is likely that this trend will continue to grow over the next few decades.  This tutorial review gives information on solvents and solvent selection, basic environmental metrics collection and three industrial case histories.  All three case histories involve enzymatic chemistry.  Pregabalin (Lyrica®) is produced using a lipase based resolution and is extremely unusual in that all four manufacturing steps to make pregabalin are performed in water.  Sitagliptin (Januvia®) uses a transaminase in the final chemical step.  Finally a rosuvastatin (Crestor®) intermediate is produced using a deoxy ribose aldolase (DERA) enzyme in which two carbon-carbon bonds and two chiral centres are formed in the same process step.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Green Chemistry', 'Sustainable Chemistry', 'design of chemical products that reduce or eliminate the use of hazardous substances', 'produce greener and more sustainable chemical processes', 'industrial case histories'], 'process': ['enzymatic chemistry', 'lipase based resolution', 'transaminase', 'DERA'], 'material': ['solvents', 'basic environmental metrics collection', 'Pregabalin', 'Lyrica', 'pregabalin', 'water', 'Sitagliptin', 'Januvia', 'rosuvastatin', 'Crestor', 'deoxy ribose aldolase', 'two carbon-carbon bonds', 'two chiral centres']}], 'authors': 'GREENGARD O; SMITH M A; ACS G', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Δ4-3-oxosteroid 5β-reductase deficiency: Failure of ursodeoxycholic acid treatment and response to chenodeoxycholic acid plus cholic acid'}, {'document': ['Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) are synthesized in plants from branched-chain keto acids, but their metabolism is not completely understood.  The interface of BCAA metabolism lies with branched-chain aminotransferases (BCAT) that catalyze both the last anabolic step and the first catabolic step.  In this study, six BCAT genes from the cultivated tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) were identified and characterized.  SlBCAT1, -2, -3, and -4 are expressed in multiple plant tissues, while SlBCAT5 and -6 were undetectable.  SlBCAT1 and -2 are located in the mitochondria, SlBCAT3 and -4 are located in chloroplasts, while SlBCAT5 and -6 are located in the cytosol and vacuole, respectively.  SlBCAT1, -2, -3, and -4 were able to restore growth of Escherichia coli BCAA auxotrophic cells, but SlBCAT1 and -2 were less effective than SlBCAT3 and -4 in growth restoration.  All enzymes were active in the forward (BCAA synthesis) and reverse (branched-chain keto acid synthesis) reactions.  SlBCAT3 and -4 exhibited a preference for the forward reaction, while SlBCAT1 and -2 were more active in the reverse reaction.  While overexpression of SlBCAT1 or -3 in tomato fruit did not significantly alter amino acid levels, an expression quantitative trait locus on chromosome 3, associated with substantially higher expression of Solanum pennellii BCAT4, did significantly increase BCAA levels.  Conversely, antisense-mediated reduction of SlBCAT1 resulted in higher levels of BCAAs.  Together, these results support a model in which the mitochondrial SlBCAT1 and -2 function in BCAA catabolism while the chloroplastic SlBCAT3 and -4 function in BCAA synthesis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['metabolism', 'restore growth'], 'process': ['BCAA metabolism', 'growth restoration', 'forward (', 'BCAA synthesis', 'synthesis) reactions', 'forward reaction', 'reverse reaction', 'overexpression of SlBCAT1', 'antisense-mediated reduction', 'BCAA catabolism', 'BCAA synthesis'], 'material': ['Branched-chain amino acids', 'BCAAs', 'branched-chain keto acids', 'branched-chain aminotransferases', 'BCAT', 'BCAT genes', 'cultivated tomato', 'Solanum lycopersicum', 'SlBCAT1', 'SlBCAT5', 'SlBCAT1', 'mitochondria', 'SlBCAT3', 'chloroplasts', 'SlBCAT5', 'cytosol', 'vacuole', 'SlBCAT1', 'Escherichia coli BCAA auxotrophic', 'SlBCAT1', 'SlBCAT3', 'enzymes', 'SlBCAT3', 'SlBCAT1', 'tomato fruit', 'Solanum pennellii BCAT4', 'SlBCAT1', 'BCAAs', 'mitochondrial SlBCAT1', 'chloroplastic SlBCAT3']}], 'authors': 'Skalden, Lilly; Peters, Christin; Dickerhoff, Jonathan; Nobili, Alberto; Joosten, Henk-Jan; Weisz, Klaus; Hoehne, Matthias; Bornscheuer, Uwe T.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Persistent hepatitis C viremia after acute self-limiting posttransfusion hepatitis C'}, {'document': ['The purpose here was to identify the sequence of ω-amidase, which hydrolyzes the amide group of α-ketoglutaramate, a product formed by glutamine transaminases.  In the Bacillus subtilis genome, the gene encoding a glutamine transaminase (mtnV) is flanked by a gene encoding a putative carbon-nitrogen hydrolase.  The closest mammalian homolog of this putative bacterial ω-amidase is nitrilase 2, whose size and amino acid compn. were in good agreement with those reported for purified rat liver ω-amidase.  Mouse nitrilase 2 was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and shown to catalyze the hydrolysis of α-ketoglutaramate and other known substrates of ω-amidase.  No such activity was obsd. with mouse nitrilase 1.  It is concluded that mammalian nitrilase 2 is ω-amidase.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['identify the sequence'], 'process': ['hydrolyzes the amide group of α-ketoglutaramate', 'glutamine transaminases', 'glutamine transaminase', 'mtnV', 'hydrolysis'], 'material': ['ω-amidase', 'Bacillus subtilis', 'carbon-nitrogen hydrolase', 'ω-amidase', 'nitrilase', 'rat liver ω-amidase', 'Mouse nitrilase', 'α-ketoglutaramate', 'ω-amidase', 'mouse nitrilase', 'mammalian nitrilase', 'ω-amidase']}], 'authors': 'Kireev, Roman; Bitoun, Samuel; Cuesta, Sara; Tejerina, Alejandro; Ibarrola, Carolina; Moreno, Enrique; Vara, Elena; Tresguerres, Jesus A. F.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Primary structure of a key enzyme in plant tetrapyrrole synthesis: glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase'}, {'document': ['Transamination of the branched-chain amino acids produces glutamate and branched-chain alpha-ketoacids.  The reaction is catalyzed by branched-chain aminotransferase (BCAT), of which there are cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms (BCATc and BCATm).  BCATc accounts for 70% of brain BCAT activity, and contributes at least 30% of the nitrogen required for glutamate synthesis.  In previous work, we showed that BCATc is present in the processes of glutamatergic neurons and in cell bodies of GABAergic neurons in hippocampus and cerebellum.  Here we show that this metabolic enzyme is expressed throughout the brain and spinal cord, with distinct differences in regional and intracellular patterns of expression.  In the cerebral cortex, BCATc is present in GABAergic interneurons and in pyramidal cell axons and proximal dendrites.  Axonal labeling for BCATc continues into the corpus callosum and internal capsule.  BCATc is expressed by GABAergic neurons in the basal ganglia and by glutamatergic neurons in the hypothalamus, midbrain, brainstem, and dorsal root ganglia.  BCATc is also expressed in hypothalamic peptidergic neurons, brainstem serotoninergic neurons, and spinal cord motor neurons.  The results indicate that BCATc accumulates in neuronal cell bodies in some regions, while elsewhere it is exported to axons and nerve terminals.  The enzyme is in a position to influence pools of glutamate in a variety of neuronal types.  BCATc may also provide neurons with sensitivity to nutrient-derived BCAAs, which may be important in regions that control feeding behavior, such as the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, where neurons express high levels of BCATc.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['control feeding behavior'], 'process': ['Transamination', 'branched-chain aminotransferase', 'glutamate synthesis', 'Axonal labeling', 'influence pools of glutamate', 'provide neurons with sensitivity to nutrient-derived BCAAs'], 'material': ['branched-chain amino acids', 'glutamate', 'branched-chain alpha-ketoacids', 'BCAT', 'cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms', 'BCATc', 'BCATm', 'BCATc', 'BCAT', 'BCATc', 'processes of glutamatergic neurons', 'cell bodies of GABAergic neurons', 'metabolic enzyme', 'cerebral cortex', 'BCATc', 'GABAergic interneurons', 'pyramidal cell axons', 'BCATc', 'corpus callosum', 'BCATc', 'GABAergic neurons', 'basal ganglia', 'glutamatergic neurons', 'hypothalamus', 'midbrain', 'brainstem', 'dorsal root ganglia', 'BCATc', 'hypothalamic peptidergic neurons', 'brainstem serotoninergic neurons', 'spinal cord motor neurons', 'BCATc', 'BCATc', 'arcuate nucleus', 'neurons', 'BCATc']}], 'authors': 'Jensen, Pernille R.; Karlsson, Magnus; Meier, Sebastian; Duus, Jens Oe.; Lerche, Mathilde H.', 'DOI': '10.1002/cbic.201500074', 'journal': 'ChemBioChem ', 'title': 'REGULATORY MECHANISMS IN THE BIOSYNTHESIS OF ISOLEUCINE AND VALINE. I. GENETIC DEREPRESSION OF ENZYME FORMATION'}, {'document': ['Chromium hexavalent (Cr(VI)) is a biol. active oxidized state of chromium.  It is involved in the redox cycle, with the prodn. of reactive oxygen species.  Free radical scavenging properties and possible antioxidant activity of folic acid (FA) have been reported; therefore, the present study examd. possible protective effects of FA on the reproductive toxicity of potassium dichromate (K2Cr2O7) in male New Zealand white rabbits.  We monitored reproductive performance, lipid peroxidn., enzyme activities and biochem. parameters in seminal plasma.  Six rabbits per treatment group (and a control group) were exposed: 8.3 μg/kg FA; 5 mg/kg potassium dichromate (contains 3.6 mg chromium(VI)) and 5 mg/kg potassium dichromate + 8.3 μg/kg FA.  Results showed that semen quality deteriorated following potassium dichromate exposure.  Testosterone levels, body wt. (BW), relative wts. of testes (RTW) and epididymis (REW) all decreased.  Levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances increased, whereas the activities of glutathione S-transferase, transaminases and phosphatases decreased in the seminal plasma.  FA alone significantly increased BW, RTW, REW, semen characteristics and seminal plasma enzymes, and decreased the levels of free radicals.  Furthermore, FA can be effective in the protection of chromium-induced reproductive toxicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['examd. possible protective effects', 'protection of chromium-induced reproductive toxicity'], 'process': ['redox cycle', 'prodn. of reactive oxygen species', 'Free radical scavenging properties', 'antioxidant activity', 'lipid peroxidn', 'potassium dichromate exposure', 'BW', 'RTW', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'BW', 'RTW', 'REW', 'semen'], 'material': ['Chromium hexavalent', 'Cr(VI', 'chromium', 'folic', 'FA', 'FA', 'potassium dichromate', 'K2Cr2O7', 'male New Zealand white rabbits', 'seminal plasma', 'rabbits', 'control group', 'FA', 'potassium dichromate', 'chromium(VI', 'potassium dichromate', 'FA', 'semen', 'Testosterone', 'testes', 'epididymis', 'REW', 'thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances', 'seminal plasma', 'FA', 'seminal plasma enzymes', 'free radicals', 'FA']}], 'authors': 'Lutke-Eversloh Tina; Stephanopoulos Gregory', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.ejphar.2012.11.038', 'journal': 'European Journal of Pharmacology ', 'title': 'Relation of cortisone and synthesis of ribonucleic acid to induced and developmental enzyme formation'}, {'document': ['UNLABELLED:  Nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL) and steatohepatitis (NASH) may accompany obesity, diabetes, parenteral nutrition, jejeuno-ileal bypass, and chronic inflammatory bowel disease.  Currently there is no FDA approved and effective therapy available.  We investigated the potential efficacy of those agents that stimulate glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis on the development of experimental steatohepatitis.  Rats fed (ad libitum) amino acid based methionine-choline deficient (MCD) diet were further gavaged with (1) vehicle (MCD), (2) S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe), or (3) 2(RS)-n-propylthiazolidine-4(R)-carboxylic acid (PTCA).  RESULTS:  MCD diet significantly reduced hematocrit, and this abnormality improved in the treated groups (p < 0.01).  Serum transaminases were considerably elevated (AST: 5.8-fold; ALT: 3.22-fold) in MCD rats.  However, administration of GSH-enhancing agents significantly suppressed these abnormal enzyme activities.  MCD rats developed severe liver pathology manifested by fatty degeneration, inflammation, and necrosis, which significantly improved with therapy.  Blood levels of GSH were significantly depleted in MCD rats but normalized in the treated groups.  Finally, RT-PCR measurements showed a significant upregulation of genes involved in tissue remodeling and fibrosis (matrix metalloproteinases, collagen-alpha1), suppressor of cytokines signaling1, and the inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and TGF-beta) in the livers of rats fed MCD.  GSH-enhancing therapies significantly attenuated the expression of deleterious proinflammatory and fibrogenic genes in this dietary model.  This is the first report that oral administration of SAMe and PTCA provide protection against liver injury in this model and suggests therapeutic applications of these compounds in NASH patients.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['potential efficacy', 'severe liver pathology', 'tissue remodeling and fibrosis', 'therapeutic applications'], 'process': ['Nonalcoholic fatty liver', 'NAFL', 'steatohepatitis', 'NASH', 'obesity', 'diabetes', 'parenteral nutrition', 'jejeuno-ileal bypass', 'stimulate glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis', 'AST', 'ALT', 'administration of', 'fatty degeneration', 'RT-PCR measurements', 'suppressor of cytokines signaling1', 'GSH-enhancing therapies', 'dietary model', 'oral administration', 'liver injury'], 'material': ['chronic inflammatory bowel disease', 'amino acid based methionine-choline deficient', 'MCD', 'vehicle', 'MCD', '(2', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'SAMe', '(3)', '2(RS)-n-propylthiazolidine-4(R)-carboxylic acid', 'PTCA', 'MCD diet', 'Serum transaminases', 'MCD rats', 'GSH-enhancing agents', 'MCD rats', 'Blood levels', 'GSH', 'MCD rats', 'matrix metalloproteinases', 'collagen-alpha1', 'inflammatory cytokines', 'IL-1beta', 'IL-6', 'TNF', 'TGF', 'beta', 'MCD', 'SAMe', 'PTCA', 'NASH patients']}], 'authors': 'Dent John; Kahrilas Peter J; Hatlebakk Jan; Vakil Nimish; Denison Hans; Franzen Stefan; Lundborg Per', 'DOI': '10.1002/chem.200901042', 'journal': 'Chemistry - A European Journal ', 'title': 'Two Subtle Amino Acid Changes in a Transaminase Substantially Enhance or Invert Enantiopreference in Cascade Syntheses'}, {'document': ['The present study was conducted to evaluate some of the components of antioxidant defense system and oxidative damage in 20 male patients of alc. liver disease (ALD).  The results were compared with 20 healthy male smokers and 20 healthy male non-smokers volunteers.  Patients were subjected to detailed clin. examn. and lab. investigations.  Blood samples were collected for estg. reduced glutathione (GSH), total thiols (T-SH) malondialdehyde (MDA), transaminases (AST, ALT), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) arid gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT).  Serum aspartate amino transferase (AST)/alanine amino transferase (ALT) ratio was significantly (p<0.01) reduced in ALD patients as compared to the controls.  However, the core of utility of MDA and GST was found to be significantly (p<0.01) increased in ALD patients compared to controls.  There was a significant neg. correlation of MDA with both GSH and T-SH.  Plasma GGT levels were significantly (p<0.01) increased in alcoholics and the enzyme showed a significant pos. correlation with MDA.  These results give enough evidence of increased oxidative stress and compromised antioxidant defense system in patients with ALD.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['evaluate some of the components of antioxidant defense system and', 'alc. liver disease', 'increased oxidative stress'], 'process': ['oxidative damage', 'ALD', 'estg', 'transaminases', 'AST', 'ALT', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'GST', 'gamma-glutamyl transferase', 'GGT', 'Serum aspartate amino transferase', 'ALT', 'compromised antioxidant defense system'], 'material': ['Blood samples', 'reduced glutathione', 'GSH', 'total thiols', 'T-SH', 'malondialdehyde', 'MDA', 'ALD patients', 'MDA', 'GST', 'ALD patients', 'MDA', 'GSH', 'T-SH', 'Plasma GGT', 'alcoholics', 'MDA', 'ALD']}], 'authors': 'Schuster Joachim; Binder Stefan', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Metabolic engineering ', 'title': 'Melatonin treatment protects liver of Zucker rats after ischemia/reperfusion by diminishing oxidative stress and apoptosis'}, {'document': ['Kynurenic acid (KYNA) can act as an endogenous modulator of excitatory neurotransmission and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurological and psychiatric diseases.  To evaluate its role in the brain, we disrupted the murine gene for kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), the principal enzyme responsible for the synthesis of KYNA in the rat brain. mKat-2(-/-) mice showed no detectable KAT II mRNA or protein.  Total brain KAT activity and KYNA levels were reduced during the first month but returned to normal levels thereafter.  In contrast, liver KAT activity and KYNA levels in mKat-2(-/-) mice were decreased by >90% throughout life, though no hepatic abnormalities were observed histologically.  KYNA-associated metabolites kynurenine, 3-hydroxykynurenine, and quinolinic acid were unchanged in the brain and liver of knockout mice. mKat-2(-/-) mice began to manifest hyperactivity and abnormal motor coordination at 2 weeks of age but were indistinguishable from wild type after 1 month of age.  Golgi staining of cortical and striatal neurons revealed enlarged dendritic spines and a significant increase in spine density in 3-week-old mKat-2(-/-) mice but not in 2-month-old animals.  Our results show that gene targeting of mKat-2 in mice leads to early and transitory decreases in brain KAT activity and KYNA levels with commensurate behavioral and neuropathological changes and suggest that compensatory changes or ontogenic expression of another isoform may account for the normalization of KYNA levels in the adult mKat-2(-/-) brain.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['excitatory neurotransmission', 'pathogenesis of several neurological and psychiatric diseases', 'abnormal motor coordination'], 'process': ['disrupted the murine gene for kynurenine aminotransferase II', 'synthesis of KYNA', 'liver KAT activity', 'hepatic abnormalities', 'hyperactivity', 'Golgi staining', 'spine density', 'gene targeting', 'KAT activity', 'compensatory changes', 'normalization'], 'material': ['Kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'KAT', 'II', 'enzyme', 'KAT II', 'Total brain KAT activity', 'KYNA', 'KYNA-associated metabolites', 'kynurenine', '3-hydroxykynurenine', 'quinolinic', 'cortical and striatal neurons', 'enlarged dendritic spines', '2-month-old animals']}], 'authors': 'Marquet A; Bui B T; Florentin D', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The American journal of gastroenterology ', 'title': 'Hyperpolarized Amino Acids for In Vivo Assays of Transaminase Activity'}, {'document': ['Bacterial biosynthesis of lysine has come under increased scrutiny as a target for novel antibacterial agents as it provides both lysine for protein synthesis and meso-diaminopimelate for construction of the bacterial peptidoglycan cell wall.  Recent studies of the enzymes of the lysine biosynthetic pathway, development of inhibitors and investigations of their antibacterial properties are discussed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Bacterial biosynthesis of lysine', 'antibacterial properties'], 'process': ['protein synthesis', 'lysine biosynthetic pathway'], 'material': ['lysine', 'meso-diaminopimelate', 'bacterial peptidoglycan cell']}], 'authors': 'Bilbao, Guadalupe; Contreras, Juan L.; Gomez-Navarro, Jesus; Eckhoff, Devin E.; Mikheeva, Galina; Krasnykh, Victor; Hynes, Tracy; Thomas, Francis T.; Thomas, Judith M.; Curiel, David T.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant molecular biology ', 'title': 'Combinatorial pathway analysis for improved L-tyrosine production in Escherichia coli: identification of enzymatic bottlenecks by systematic gene overexpression'}, {'document': ['This study evaluates whether preconditioning could modulate the injurious effects of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) on liver and lung following hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) by inhibiting hepatic postischemic TNF release.  The inhibition of hepatic TNF release from Kupffer cells with gadolinium chloride (GdCl(3)) previous to ischemia maintained TNF at control levels, attenuating the increases in transaminases, vascular permeability, and edema associated with hepatic I/R injury.  TNF addition reverted this beneficial effect, indicating the implication of the TNF released mainly from Kupffer cells in hepatic I/R injury.  Preconditioning prevented hepatic TNF increases, thus attenuating the liver injury, while TNF addition abolished the benefits of preconditioning.  Inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis abolished the effect of preconditioning, whereas GdCl(3) addition avoided the injurious effect of NO inhibition.  In addition, NO administration before I/R offered similar results to those found in preconditioning, while TNF addition abolished the benefits of NO.  Thus, the effect of preconditioning on TNF release after hepatic I/R is mediated by NO.  Inhibition of hepatic TNF release from Kupffer cells with GdCl(3) prevented both the increase in plasma TNF and the injurious effect in lung seen after hepatic I/R, and these effects were reverted with TNF addition.  Preconditioning resulting in reduced hepatic TNF levels prevented the systemic TNF release, thus reducing the lung damage following hepatic I/R.  However, TNF addition abolished the protective effect of preconditioning on lung injury.  These findings indicate that preconditioning attenuates hepatic postischemic TNF release from Kupffer cells, thus probably reducing the liver and lung injury following hepatic I/R, and that this effect of preconditioning is mediated by NO.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['modulate the injurious effects of tumor necrosis factor', 'attenuating the increases in transaminases', 'vascular permeability', 'attenuating the liver injury', 'reducing the lung damage', 'reducing the liver and lung injury'], 'process': ['preconditioning', 'hepatic ischemia', 'I', 'R', 'inhibiting hepatic postischemic TNF release', 'inhibition of hepatic TNF release', 'ischemia', 'edema', 'hepatic I/R injury', 'Preconditioning', 'hepatic TNF increases', 'preconditioning', 'Inhibition of nitric', 'preconditioning', 'NO inhibition', 'preconditioning', 'NO', 'preconditioning', 'TNF release', 'hepatic I/R', 'Inhibition of hepatic TNF release', 'hepatic I/R', 'Preconditioning', 'hepatic I', 'preconditioning', 'preconditioning', 'attenuates hepatic postischemic TNF release', 'hepatic I/R', 'preconditioning'], 'material': ['TNF', 'Kupffer cells', 'gadolinium', 'GdCl(3)', 'TNF', 'TNF', 'TNF', 'Kupffer cells', 'TNF', 'NO', 'GdCl(3', 'NO', 'TNF', 'NO', 'Kupffer cells', 'GdCl(3', 'plasma TNF', 'TNF', 'TNF', 'Kupffer cells', 'NO']}], 'authors': 'Iraqui I; Vissers S; Andre B; Urrestarazu A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Vitamins and hormones ', 'title': 'A randomized, comparative trial of a potassium-competitive acid blocker (AZD0865) and esomeprazole for the treatment of patients with nonerosive reflux disease'}, {'document': ['In Escherichia coli, p-aminobenzoate (PABA) is synthesized from chorismate and glutamine in two steps.  Aminodeoxychorismate synthase components I and II, encoded by pabB and pabA, respectively, convert chorismate and glutamine to 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate (ADC) and glutamate, respectively.  ADC lyase, encoded by pabC, converts ADC to PABA and pyruvate.  We reported that pabC had been cloned and mapped to 25 min on the E. coli chromosome (J.  M.  Green and B.  P.  Nichols, J.  Biol.  Chem. 266:12971-12975, 1991).  Here we report the nucleotide sequence of pabC, including a portion of a sequence of a downstream open reading frame that may be cotranscribed with pabC.  A disruption of pabC was constructed and transferred to the chromosome, and the pabC mutant strain required PABA for growth.  The deduced amino acid sequence of ADC lyase is similar to those of Bacillus subtilis PabC and a number of amino acid transaminases.  Aminodeoxychorismate lyase purified from a strain harboring an overproducing plasmid was shown to contain pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor.  This finding explains the similarity to the transaminases, which also contain pyridoxal phosphate.  Expression studies revealed the size of the pabC gene product to be approximately 30 kDa, in agreement with that predicted by the nucleotide sequence data and approximately half the native molecular mass, suggesting that the native enzyme is dimeric.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Aminodeoxychorismate synthase components', 'ADC lyase', 'transaminases', 'Expression studies', 'nucleotide sequence data'], 'material': ['p-aminobenzoate', 'PABA', 'chorismate', 'pabB', 'pabA', 'chorismate', '4-amino-4-deoxychorismate', 'ADC', 'glutamate', 'pabC', 'ADC', 'PABA', 'pyruvate', 'pabC', 'pabC', 'pabC.', 'pabC', 'pabC mutant strain', 'PABA', 'ADC lyase', 'Bacillus subtilis PabC', 'amino acid transaminases', 'Aminodeoxychorismate lyase', 'overproducing plasmid', 'pyridoxal phosphate', 'pyridoxal phosphate', 'pabC gene product']}], 'authors': 'Monschau N; Stahmann K P; Sahm H; McNeil J B; Bognar A L', 'DOI': '10.1097/00007890-199903270-00001', 'journal': 'Transplantation ', 'title': 'The mitochondrial branched-chain aminotransferase (AtBCAT-1) is capable to initiate degradation of leucine, isoleucine and valine in almost all tissues in Arabidopsis thaliana'}, {'document': ['The effect of paraquat (I)  [4685-14-7], CuSO4, and ZnCl2 was studied on the histol. structure of the liver, kidney, and gill of 3 fish species with different feeding habits, i.e., a herbivorous, silver carp (Hypophthalmichthys molitrix), an omnivorous, common carp (Cyprinus carpio), and a carnivorous, sheatfish (Silurus glanis).  The organs were studied electron microscopically after fixation according to Karnovsky.  The toxic effect manifested itself characteristically on the resp. species, regardless of the type of the chem. applied and the species specificity.  Upon the effect of the treatments applied, the cytoplasm of the respiratory cells of the gill became electron transparent and the cytoplasmic organelles disappeared almost totally.  In the chloride cells showing focal necrosis, residuals of nuclear, mitochondrial, and endoplasmic origin were seen.  Pillar cells and the pericytes remained intact.  In the nucleus of the liver cells, electron dense heterochromatin was not present.  The degree of the damage in the liver cells was indicated by swollen mitochondria with electron transparent matrix and by dilatation and vacuolation of the endoplasmic reticulum system.  Epithelial cells decreased in electron d., the endoplasmic reticulum was vesiculated, and mitochondria were swollen.  Leukocytes increased in no., and empty vacuoles and vacuoles filled with dense granules appeared in them during toxicosis.  CuSO4 or I increased serum transaminase enzyme activities (glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase  [9000-97-9] and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase  [9000-86-6]) in all 3 fish species.  These damages can cause serious disturbances in energy uptake and secretion processes of fish.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['histol. structure'], 'process': ['fixation', 'dilatation and vacuolation', 'decreased in electron d.', 'toxicosis', 'increased serum transaminase enzyme activities', 'energy uptake and secretion processes'], 'material': ['paraquat', 'CuSO4', 'ZnCl2', 'silver carp', 'Hypophthalmichthys molitrix', 'common carp', 'Cyprinus carpio', 'sheatfish (', 'Silurus glanis', 'cytoplasm', 'respiratory cells', 'cytoplasmic organelles', 'chloride cells', 'Pillar cells', 'pericytes', 'liver cells', 'electron dense heterochromatin', 'liver cells', 'swollen mitochondria', 'electron transparent matrix', 'endoplasmic reticulum system', 'Epithelial cells', 'endoplasmic reticulum', 'mitochondria', 'Leukocytes', 'empty vacuoles', 'vacuoles', 'dense granules', 'CuSO4', 'glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase', 'glutamic-pyruvic transaminase', 'fish']}], 'authors': 'Jeney, Galina; Nemcsok, J.; Jeney, Z.; Olah, J.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular and cellular biology ', 'title': 'Biosynthesis of biotin and lipoic acid'}, {'document': ['gamma-Acetylenic GABA and gamma-vinyl GABA, two catalytic irreversible inhibitors of GABA-transaminase, produce marked and sustained elevations in mouse brain GABA concentrations and protect DBA/2 mice against audiogenically induced seizures in a similar dose and time-dependent manner.  The acetylenic analog also inhibits GAD activity while the vinyl compound has minimal activity against this enzyme.  The increase in brain GABA concentrations induced by these compounds correlates well with attenuation of audiogenic seizure intensity (r = 0.991 and 0.962 for gamma-acetylenic and gamma-vinyl GABA respectively) and with degree of seizure protection (r = 0.974 and 0.834).  Seizure intensity is reduced by 50% when brain GABA is increased to 265% and 264% of control values by the two inhibitors and seizure incidence is halved at 322% and 324%.  Thus, audiogenic seizure protection in genetically susceptible mice is apparently a function of whole brain GABA concentrations.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['attenuation of audiogenic seizure', 'audiogenic seizure protection'], 'process': ['GABA-transaminase', 'GAD activity', 'increase in brain GABA', 'seizure protection', 'Seizure'], 'material': ['gamma-Acetylenic GABA', 'gamma-vinyl GABA', 'catalytic irreversible inhibitors', 'mouse brain GABA', 'DBA/2 mice', 'acetylenic analog', 'vinyl compound', 'gamma-acetylenic', 'gamma-vinyl', 'brain GABA', 'genetically susceptible mice', 'whole brain GABA']}], 'authors': 'Brown K D; Somerville R L', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'FEMS microbiology letters ', 'title': 'Genetic modification of liver grafts with an adenoviral vector encoding the Bcl-2 gene improves organ preservation'}, {'document': ['Four arginaseless mutants of Neurospora crassa have been isolated.  All carry mutations which lie at a single locus, aga, on linkage group VIIR.  A study of aga strains shows the arginase reaction to be the major, perhaps the only, route of arginine consumption in Neurospora other than protein synthesis.  Ornithine-delta-transaminase, the second enzyme of the arginine catabolic pathway, is present and normally inducible by arginine in aga strains, and ornithine transcarbamylase, an enzyme of arginine synthesis, also has normal activity.  Arginine inhibits the growth of aga strains.  The inhibition can be reversed by spermidine, putrescine (1,4-diaminobutane), or ornithine.  The results suggest that ornithine is the major source of the putrescine moiety of polyamines in Neurospora, and that putrescine is an essential growth factor for this organism.  The inhibition of aga strains by arginine can be attributed to feedback inhibition of ornithine synthesis by arginine, combined with the complete lack of ornithine normally provided by the arginase reaction.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['arginase reaction', 'protein synthesis', 'arginine synthesis', 'inhibition', 'feedback inhibition', 'arginase reaction'], 'material': ['aga', 'aga strains', 'Ornithine-delta-transaminase', 'aga strains', 'ornithine transcarbamylase', 'Arginine', 'aga strains', 'spermidine', 'putrescine', '1,4-diaminobutane', 'ornithine', 'ornithine', 'putrescine moiety of polyamines', 'putrescine', 'aga strains', 'arginine', 'arginine', 'ornithine']}], 'authors': 'KENNEY F T', 'DOI': '10.1016/0044-8486(92)90145-B', 'journal': 'Aquaculture ', 'title': 'Transcriptional induction by aromatic amino acids in Saccharomyces cerevisiae'}, {'document': ['Asym. reductive amination of ketones using ω-transaminases (ω-TAs) offers a promising alternative to the chemocatalytic synthesis of chiral amines.  One fundamental challenge to the biocatalytic strategy is the very low enzyme activities for most ketones compared with native substrates (i.e., <1% relative to pyruvate).  Here we have demonstrated that a single point mutation in the active site of the (S)-selective ω-TA from Ochrobactrum anthropi could induce a remarkable acceleration of the amination reaction without any loss in stereoselectivity and enzyme stability.  Mol. modeling of quinonoid intermediates, alanine scanning mutagenesis and kinetic anal. revealed that the W58 residue acted as a steric barrier to binding and catalytic turnover of ketone substrates.  Removal of the steric strain by W58L substitution, which was selected by partial satn. mutagenesis, led to dramatic activity improvements for structurally diverse ketones (e.g., 340-fold increase in kcat/Km for acetophenone).  The W58L mutant afforded an efficient synthesis of enantiopure amines (i.e., >99% ee) using isopropylamine as an amino donor.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['chemocatalytic synthesis of chiral amines'], 'process': ['reductive amination', 'biocatalytic strategy', 'enzyme', 'single point mutation', 'amination reaction', 'Mol. modeling', 'alanine scanning mutagenesis', 'kinetic anal', 'W58L substitution', '. mutagenesis', 'synthesis of enantiopure amines'], 'material': ['ω-transaminases', 'ω-TAs', 'ketones', 'native substrates', 'pyruvate', 'ω-TA', 'Ochrobactrum anthropi', 'quinonoid intermediates', 'W58 residue', 'ketone substrates', 'structurally diverse ketones', 'acetophenone', 'W58L mutant', '>99% ee', 'isopropylamine', 'amino donor']}], 'authors': 'Fuchs Michael; Kroutil Wolfgang; Farnberger Judith E', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Identification of Saccharomyces cerevisiae GLY1 as a threonine aldolase: a key enzyme in glycine biosynthesis'}, {'document': ['Cyclophosphamide (CP) is the most commonly used chemotherapeutic drug for various types of cancer.  However, its use causes severe cytotoxicity to normal cells in human.  It is well known that the undesirable side effects are caused due to the formation of reactive oxygen species.  Selenium is an essential micronutrient for both animals and humans and has antioxidant and membrane stabilizing property, but selenium is also toxic above certain level.  Nano selenium has been well proved to be less toxic than inorg. selenium as well as certain organoselenium compds.  The objective of the study is to evaluate the protective role of Nano-Se against CP-induced hepatotoxicity and genotoxicity in Swiss albino mice.  CP was administered i.p. (25 mg/kg b.w.) and Nano-Se was given by oral gavages (2 mg Se/kg b.w.) in concomitant and pretreatment scheme.  I.p. administration of CP induced hepatic damage as indicated by the serum marker enzymes aspartate and alanine transaminases and increased the malonaldehyde level, depleted the glutathione content and antioxidant enzyme activity (glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-s-transferase, superoxide dismutase and catalase), and induced DNA damage and chromosomal aberration.  Oral administration of Nano-Se caused a significant redn. in malonaldehyde, ROS level and glutathione levels, restoration of antioxidant enzyme activity, redn. in chromosomal aberration in bone marrow, and DNA damage in lymphocytes and also in bone marrow.  Moreover, the chemoprotective efficiency of Nano-Se against CP induced toxicity was confirmed by histopathol. evaluation.  The results support the protective effect of Nano-Se against CP-induced hepatotoxicity and genotoxicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['evaluate the protective role', 'induced DNA damage', 'histopathol. evaluation'], 'process': ['severe cytotoxicity', 'antioxidant and membrane stabilizing property', 'genotoxicity', 'hepatic damage', 'depleted the glutathione content', 'antioxidant enzyme activity', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'glutathione-s-transferase', 'superoxide dismutase', 'Oral administration', 'restoration of antioxidant enzyme activity', 'chromosomal aberration', 'DNA damage', 'induced toxicity'], 'material': ['Cyclophosphamide', 'CP', 'chemotherapeutic drug', 'reactive oxygen species', 'Selenium', 'micronutrient', 'selenium', 'Nano', 'inorg', 'selenium', 'organoselenium compds', 'Nano', 'CP', 'Swiss albino', 'CP', 'Nano-Se', 'CP', 'serum marker enzymes', 'aspartate and alanine transaminases', 'malonaldehyde', 'catalase', 'Nano-Se', 'malonaldehyde', 'ROS', 'glutathione', 'bone marrow', 'lymphocytes', 'bone marrow', 'Nano', 'Se', 'CP', 'Nano', 'Se', 'CP']}], 'authors': 'Huang, Jun; Xie, Dong-Fang; Feng, Yan', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Acute effect of sublethal ammonia concentrations on common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.).  II.  Effect of ammonia on blood plasma transaminases (GOT, GPT), GlDH enzyme activity, and ATP value'}, {'document': ['The particular metabolic strategies of the common dentex (Dentex dentex) to face a period of prolonged starvation and subsequent refeeding were assessed.  Plasma metabolites, endogenous reserves, and the activity of key enzymes of intermediary metab. in liver, white muscle, and heart were evaluated.  Plasma glucose, total lipid, triglycerides, total-, HDL- and LDL-cholesterol, and protein levels, liver, and white muscle glycogen, and perivisceral, and muscle fat were significantly reduced by starvation, whereas liver lipid content was surprisingly increased.  Those enzymes involved in phosphorylation and oxidn. of glucose and lipid synthesis, as well as alanine aminotransferase activity, were significantly depressed in liver of starved fish.  The increase in β-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (HOAD) indicated an enhanced fatty acid oxidn. during starvation.  Part of the acetyl-CoA generated by β-oxidn. was oxidized in the hepatic Krebs cycle, as reflected the increased citrate synthase (CS) activity.  The oxaloacetate required for the reaction catalyzed by CS activity would be supplied by aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT) activity whose activity was also enhanced.  Glutamate dehydrogenase also increased to deaminate the glutamate produced by transaminases, esp. by the increased ASAT activity.  Liver gluconeogenesis of starved fish was maintained at the same rate that in controls, with glycerol playing an important role as glucogenic substrate.  The increased hepatic β-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (β-OHBDH) activity indicates that part of the acetyl-CoA arriving from β-oxidn. was being diverted for ketone bodies prodn. with dentex liver playing an important role in providing ketone bodies as fuels for other tissues under such circumstances.  Most enzyme activities in white muscle of starved dentex were significantly depressed.  In heart, starvation induced an important inhibition of those enzymes involved in glucose and protein metab., whereas CS, HOAD, and β-OHBDH activities were maintained at control levels.  Although several biomarkers assayed returned to control values after refeeding, many others did not, which indicate that after 3 wk of refeeding, pre-starved dentex is still experiencing a transient period of metabolic adjustments directed toward the restoration of body mass.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['particular metabolic strategies', 'glucose and protein metab'], 'process': ['starvation', 'refeeding', 'activity of key enzymes of intermediary metab', 'starvation', 'phosphorylation', 'oxidn', 'lipid synthesis', 'alanine aminotransferase activity', 'increase in', 'HOAD', 'fatty acid oxidn', 'starvation', 'β-oxidn', 'citrate synthase', 'CS', 'reaction', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'ASAT', 'Glutamate dehydrogenase', 'ASAT activity', 'Liver gluconeogenesis', 'increased hepatic β-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase', 'providing ketone bodies', 'enzyme activities', 'starvation', 'inhibition of those enzymes', 'refeeding', 'refeeding', 'metabolic adjustments'], 'material': ['Plasma metabolites', 'endogenous reserves', 'liver', 'white muscle', 'heart', 'Plasma glucose', 'total lipid', 'triglycerides', 'liver', 'white muscle glycogen', 'perivisceral, and muscle fat', 'liver lipid', 'liver', 'β-hydroxyacyl-CoA', 'acetyl-CoA', 'hepatic Krebs', 'oxaloacetate', 'CS', 'glutamate', 'transaminases', 'glycerol', 'glucogenic substrate', 'β-OHBDH', 'acetyl-CoA', 'β-oxidn', 'ketone bodies', 'dentex liver', 'white muscle', 'CS', 'HOAD', 'β-OHBDH', 'biomarkers', 'pre-starved dentex']}], 'authors': 'Yang Yi; Wu Jueheng; Cai Junchao; He Zhenjian; Yuan Jie; Zhu Xun; Li Yanbing; Li Mengfeng; Guan Hongyu', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'European journal of organic chemistry ', 'title': 'Repression of aromatic amino acid biosynthesis in Escherichia coli K-12'}, {'document': ['Genistein is a naturally occurring plant-derived phytoestrogen present in the human diet, and is known to possess anti-cancer, anti-oxidant and anti-osteoporosis effects.  Anti-inflammatory activity of genistein has been revealed in animal studies.  In this paper, we investigated the anti-inflammatory effect of genistein on non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) rats induced by high fat diet (HFD), and explored its potential mechanisms.  Rats were fed with normal chow diet or HFD for 12 weeks with or without low (4 mg/kg/day body weight) or high (8 mg/kg/day body weight) dose of genistein.  Serum levels of aminotransferases, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β(1)) were measured, hepatic inflammation, liver TBARS, IL-6, TNF-α and TGF-β(1) levels were determined, and proteins involved in mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) pathways were assayed.  The results showed that the NASH model rats reproduced typical pathogenetic and histopathological features of NASH in human, and genistein administration improved liver function, slowed down NASH progression, decreased the levels of TBARS, TNF-α and IL-6 in serum and liver, as well as inhibited IκB-α phosphorylation, nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65 subunit, and activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK).  In conclusion, genistein may be a promising drug to inhibit the inflammatory process and prevent liver damage in patients with NASH.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['explored its potential mechanisms', 'slowed down NASH progression', 'inhibit the inflammatory process', 'prevent liver damage'], 'process': ['Anti-inflammatory activity', 'anti-inflammatory effect', 'NASH', 'HFD', 'transforming growth factor', 'mitogen-activated protein kinases', 'MAPKs', 'nuclear factor-kappa B', 'genistein administration', 'inhibited IκB-α phosphorylation', 'nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65 subunit', 'activation', 'JNK'], 'material': ['Genistein', 'naturally occurring plant-derived phytoestrogen', 'genistein', 'genistein', 'non-alcoholic steatohepatitis', 'high fat diet', 'normal chow diet', 'HFD', 'low (4 mg/kg/day body weight', 'genistein', 'Serum levels', 'aminotransferases', 'thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances', 'TBARS', 'tumor necrosis', 'TNF', 'IL-6', 'TGF', 'hepatic inflammation', 'liver TBARS', 'IL-6', 'TNF', 'TGF', 'NASH model rats', 'NASH', 'TBARS', 'TNF', 'IL-6', 'c-Jun N-terminal kinase', 'genistein', 'NASH']}], 'authors': 'Caplin Ben; Wang Zhen; Slaviero Anna; Tomlinson James; Dowsett Laura; Delahaye Mathew; Salama Alan; Wheeler David C; Leiper James', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.12.131', 'journal': 'Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications ', 'title': 'Induction of tyrosine-alpha-ketoglutarate transaminase in rat liver. IV. Evidence for an increase in the rate of enzyme synthesis'}, {'document': ['This patient presented on the first day of life with pronounced lactic acidosis with an elevated lactate/pyruvate ratio.  Urine org. acids showed Krebs cycle metabolites and mildly elevated methylmalonate and methylcitrate.  The acylcarnitine profile showed elevated propionylcarnitine and succinylcarnitine.  Amino acids showed elevated glutamic acid, glutamine, proline, and alanine.  From the age 2 of mo on, she had elevated transaminases and intermittent episodes of liver failure.  Liver biopsy showed steatosis and a decrease of mitochondrial DNA to 50% of control.  She had bilateral sensorineural hearing loss.  Over the course of the first 2 y of life, she developed a progressively severe myopathy with pronounced muscle weakness eventually leading to respiratory failure, Leigh disease, and recurrent hepatic failure.  The hepatic symptoms and the metabolic parameters temporarily improved on treatment with aspartate, but neither muscle symptoms nor brain lesions improved.  Lab. testing revealed a deficiency of succinyl-CoA ligase enzyme activity and protein in fibroblasts because of a novel homozygous mutation in the SUCLG1 gene: c.40A>T (p.M14L).  Functional anal. suggests that this methionine is more likely to function as the translation initiator methionine, explaining the pathogenic nature of the mutation.  Succinyl-CoA ligase deficiency due to an SUCLG1 mutation is a new cause for mitochondrial hepatoencephalomyopathy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['recurrent hepatic failure', 'novel homozygous mutation', 'pathogenic nature of the mutation', 'mitochondrial hepatoencephalomyopathy'], 'process': ['lactate/pyruvate ratio', 'acylcarnitine profile', 'elevated transaminases', 'liver failure', 'Liver biopsy', 'steatosis', 'decrease of mitochondrial DNA', 'muscle weakness', 'respiratory failure', 'Leigh disease', 'hepatic symptoms', 'Lab. testing', 'deficiency of succinyl-CoA ligase enzyme activity', 'Functional anal', 'SUCLG1 mutation'], 'material': ['pronounced lactic acidosis', 'Urine org', 'Krebs cycle metabolites', 'methylmalonate', 'methylcitrate', 'propionylcarnitine', 'succinylcarnitine', 'Amino acids', 'glutamic', 'glutamine', 'proline', 'alanine', 'SUCLG1 gene', 'methionine', 'translation initiator methionine', 'Succinyl-CoA ligase']}], 'authors': 'Salido Eduardo; Pey Angel L; Rodriguez Rosa; Lorenzo Victor', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'International journal of cancer ', 'title': 'The Industrial Age of Biocatalytic Transamination'}, {'document': ['The present report identifies the enzymic substrates of a member of the mammalian nitrilase-like (Nit) family.  Nit2, which is widely distributed in nature, has been suggested to be a tumor suppressor protein.  The protein was assumed to be an amidase based on sequence homol. to other amidases and on the presence of a putative amidase-like active site.  This assumption was recently confirmed by the publication of the crystal structure of mouse Nit2.  However, the in vivo substrates were not previously identified.  Here, it is reported that rat liver Nit2 is ω-amidodicarboxylate amidohydrolase (E.C. 3.5.1.3; abbreviated ω-amidase), a ubiquitously expressed enzyme that catalyzes a variety of amidase, transamidase, esterase and transesterification reactions.  The in vivo amidase substrates are α-ketoglutaramate and α-ketosuccinamate, generated by transamination of glutamine and asparagine, resp.  Glutamine transaminases serve to salvage a no. of α-keto acids generated through non-specific transamination reactions (particularly those of the essential amino acids).  Asparagine transamination appears to be useful in mitochondrial metab. and in photorespiration.  Glutamine transaminases play a particularly important role in transaminating α-keto-γ-methiolbutyrate, a key component of the methionine salvage pathway.  Some evidence suggests that excess α-ketoglutaramate may be neurotoxic.  Moreover, α-ketosuccinamate is unstable and is readily converted to a no. of hetero-arom. compds. that may be toxic.  Thus, an important role of ω-amidase is to remove potentially toxic intermediates by converting α-ketoglutaramate and α-ketosuccinamate to biol. useful α-ketoglutarate and oxaloacetate, resp.  Despite its importance in nitrogen and sulfur metab., the biochem. significance of ω-amidase has been largely overlooked.  This report may provide clues regarding the nature of the biol. amidase substrate(s) of Nit1 (another member of the Nit family, which is a well-established tumor suppressor protein), and emphasizes (a) the crucial role of Nit2 in nitrogen and sulfur metab., and (b) the possible link of Nit2 to cancer biol.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['identifies the enzymic substrates', 'crystal structure', 'mitochondrial metab', 'biochem. significance', 'possible link'], 'process': ['mammalian nitrilase-like', 'Nit', 'sequence homol.', 'amidase-like active site', 'amidase', 'transamidase', 'esterase', 'transesterification reactions', 'transamination', 'Glutamine transaminases', 'salvage a no. of α-keto acids', 'non-specific transamination reactions', 'Asparagine transamination', 'Glutamine transaminases', 'transaminating', 'methionine salvage pathway', 'remove potentially toxic intermediates', 'cancer biol'], 'material': ['Nit2', 'tumor suppressor protein', 'amidase', 'amidases', 'mouse Nit2', 'in vivo substrates', 'rat liver Nit2', 'ω-amidodicarboxylate amidohydrolase', 'ω-amidase', 'in vivo amidase substrates', 'α-ketoglutaramate', 'α-ketosuccinamate', 'glutamine', 'asparagine', 'excess α-ketoglutaramate', 'α-ketosuccinamate', 'ω-amidase', 'α-ketoglutaramate', 'α-ketosuccinamate', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'oxaloacetate', 'nitrogen and sulfur metab', 'ω-amidase', 'biol. amidase substrate(s', 'Nit1', 'Nit', 'tumor suppressor protein', 'Nit2', 'Nit2']}], 'authors': 'Dunn Peter J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Arteriosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology ', 'title': 'Engineering thermostable (R)-selective amine transaminase from Aspergillus terreus through in silico design employing B-factor and folding free energy calculations'}, {'document': ['Kynurenine aminotransferase III (KAT III) has been considered to be involved in the production of mammalian brain kynurenic acid (KYNA), which plays an important role in protecting neurons from overstimulation by excitatory neurotransmitters.  The enzyme was identified based on its high sequence identity with mammalian KAT I, but its activity toward kynurenine and its structural characteristics have not been established.  In this study, the biochemical and structural properties of mouse KAT III (mKAT III) were determined.  Specifically, mKAT III cDNA was amplified from a mouse brain cDNA library, and its recombinant protein was expressed in an insect cell protein expression system.  We established that mKAT III is able to efficiently catalyze the transamination of kynurenine to KYNA and has optimum activity at relatively basic conditions of around pH 9.0 and at relatively high temperatures of 50 to 60 degrees C.  In addition, mKAT III is active toward a number of other amino acids.  Its activity toward kynurenine is significantly decreased in the presence of methionine, histidine, glutamine, leucine, cysteine, and 3-hydroxykynurenine.  Through macromolecular crystallography, we determined the mKAT III crystal structure and its structures in complex with kynurenine and glutamine.  Structural analysis revealed the overall architecture of mKAT III and its cofactor binding site and active center residues.  This is the first report concerning the biochemical characteristics and crystal structures of KAT III enzymes and provides a basis toward understanding the overall physiological role of mammalian KAT III in vivo and insight into regulating the levels of endogenous KYNA through modulation of the enzyme in the mouse brain.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['production of mammalian brain kynurenic acid', 'protecting neurons from overstimulation by excitatory neurotransmitters', 'biochemical and structural properties', 'regulating the levels of endogenous KYNA'], 'process': ['insect cell protein expression system', 'macromolecular crystallography', 'crystal structure', 'Structural analysis', 'cofactor binding site', 'modulation of the enzyme'], 'material': ['Kynurenine aminotransferase', 'KAT', 'III', 'KYNA', 'enzyme', 'mammalian KAT', 'kynurenine', 'mouse KAT III', 'mKAT', 'III', 'mKAT III', 'mouse brain cDNA library', 'recombinant protein', 'mKAT', 'III', 'KYNA', 'mKAT', 'kynurenine', 'methionine', 'histidine', 'glutamine', 'leucine', 'cysteine', '3-hydroxykynurenine', 'mKAT', 'kynurenine', 'glutamine', 'mKAT III', 'active center residues', 'KAT III enzymes', 'mammalian KAT III']}], 'authors': 'Maloney Gregory S; Kochevenko Andrej; Tieman Denise M; Tohge Takayuki; Krieger Uri; Zamir Dani; Taylor Mark G; Fernie Alisdair R; Klee Harry J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Biochimica et biophysica acta ', 'title': 'PSAT1 regulates cyclin D1 degradation and sustains proliferation of non-small cell lung cancer cells'}, {'document': ['Purpose: This is a phase-I study of gefitinib in combination with temozolomide in patients with gliomas.  The goal of the study was to define the max. tolerated dose (MTD) and to characterize the pharmacokinetics of gefitinib when combined with temozolomide.  Patients and methods: Patients were stratified according to co-administration of enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAEDs).  There were 26 evaluable patients enrolled (16 on EIAEDs, 10 not on EIAEDs).  All but seven patients had Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM), and only six cases had a Karnosfsky Performance Status (KPS) of less than 80; median age was 51 years.  All had received prior radiotherapy and 14 patients had no prior chemotherapy.  The starting dose of temozolomide was 150 mg/m2/day for 5 days every 28 days and could be escalated to a max. dose of 200 mg/m2/day in subsequent cycles.  The starting dose of gefitinib was 500 mg/day given by mouth on a continuous basis.  Dose-limiting toxicity was assessed in cycle one only.  Results: For patients on EIAEDs, the MTD of gefitinib was 1,000 mg/day in combination with temozolomide.  Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was due to diarrhea, nausea and vomiting.  For patients not on EIAEDs, the MTD was 250 mg/day in combination with temozolomide.  The DLT was due to increases in liver transaminases.  Rash was not a significant toxicity at these dose levels.  The peak concn. and AUC0-24hr at the 500 mg dose level was 1.8 and 2.5-fold lower, resp., in the EIAED group compared to the non-EIAED group; trough levels of gefitinib increased in both groups consistent with the reported terminal half-life ranging from 27 to 51 h.  Conclusion: The recommended phase-2 dose of gefitinib when used in combination with temozolomide is 1,000 and 250 mg/day, resp., for patients on or not on EIAEDs.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['phase-I study', 'define the max. tolerated dose', 'characterize the pharmacokinetics', 'Dose-limiting toxicity', 'Dose-limiting toxicity'], 'process': ['MTD', 'EIAEDs', 'EIAEDs', 'KPS', 'EIAEDs', 'MTD', 'DLT', 'EIAEDs', 'MTD', 'DLT', 'increases in liver transaminases', 'Rash'], 'material': ['gefitinib', 'temozolomide', 'gefitinib', 'temozolomide', 'enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs', 'EIAEDs', 'Glioblastoma', 'Multiforme', 'GBM', 'chemotherapy', 'temozolomide', 'gefitinib', 'gefitinib', 'temozolomide', 'diarrhea', 'temozolomide', 'EIAED', 'trough levels', 'gefitinib', 'gefitinib', 'temozolomide']}], 'authors': 'Jaisson, Stephane; Veiga-da-Cunha, Maria; Van Schaftingen, Emile', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Chemical Society reviews ', 'title': 'Alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase-2 metabolizes endogenous methylarginines, regulates NO, and controls blood pressure'}, {'document': ['Lipid A modification with 4-amino-4-deoxy-L-arabinose confers on certain pathogenic bacteria, such as Salmonella, resistance to cationic antimicrobial peptides, including those derived from the innate immune system.  ArnB catalysis of amino group transfer from glutamic acid to the 4"-position of a UDP-linked ketopyranose molecule to form UDP-4-amino-4-deoxy-L-arabinose represents a key step in the lipid A modification pathway.  Structural and functional studies of the ArnB aminotransferase were undertaken by combining X-ray crystallography with biochemical analyses.  High-resolution crystal structures were solved for two native forms and one covalently inhibited form of S. typhimurium ArnB.  These structures permitted identification of key residues involved in substrate binding and catalysis, including a rarely observed nonprolyl cis peptide bond in the active site.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['resistance to cationic antimicrobial peptides', 'substrate binding'], 'process': ['Lipid A modification', 'ArnB catalysis', 'amino group transfer', 'lipid A modification pathway', 'Structural and functional studies', 'combining X-ray crystallography', 'biochemical analyses', 'identification of key residues', 'catalysis'], 'material': ['4-amino-4-deoxy-L-arabinose', 'pathogenic bacteria', 'Salmonella', 'innate immune', 'glutamic acid to the 4"-position of a', 'UDP-linked ketopyranose molecule', 'UDP-4-amino-4-deoxy-L-arabinose', 'ArnB aminotransferase', 'High-resolution crystal structures', 'native forms', 'S. typhimurium', 'rarely observed nonprolyl cis peptide bond']}], 'authors': 'Garcia-Espinosa Maria A; Wallin Reidar; Hutson Susan M; Sweatt Andrew J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant physiology ', 'title': 'Primary hyperoxalurias: disorders of glyoxylate detoxification'}, {'document': ['Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), also known as heat shock protein 32, has been shown to protect against oxidant-induced tissue injury.  In the present studies, we analyzed expression of this enzyme in macrophages and hepatocytes following acetaminophen administration and its potential role in hepatotoxicity.  Treatment of rats with a hepatotoxic dose of acetaminophen (1 g/kg, ip) resulted in a time-dependent induction of HO-1 in the liver.  This was observed within 6 h of acetaminophen administration in both hepatocytes and macrophages.  Hepatocytes were found to be more sensitive than macrophages to the effects of acetaminophen on HO-1.  Up regulation of HO-1 in the liver following acetaminophen administration correlated with induction of ferritin and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD).  To determine if HO-1 was hepatoprotective, rats were pretreated with hemin (30 micromol/kg, ip), a potent inducer of the enzyme.  Following hemin treatment, we observed a time-dependent increase in HO-1 protein in the liver and in serum bilirubin levels.  Pretreatment of rats with hemin was found to prevent acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity, as measured histologically and biochemically by decreased serum transaminase levels.  This was correlated with more rapid increases in expression of hepatic ferritin and MnSOD.  Heme metabolism via HO-1 generates biliverdin, which is rapidly converted to bilirubin by biliverdin reductase.  Pretreatment of rats with biliverdin (40 micromol/kg, ip) was also found to block acetaminophen-induced injury.  These data suggest that HO-1 is an important component of antioxidant defense during acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['potential role in hepatotoxicity'], 'process': ['Heme oxygenase-1', 'oxidant-induced tissue injury', 'acetaminophen administration', 'Up regulation', 'acetaminophen administration', 'hemin treatment', 'decreased serum transaminase levels', 'Heme metabolism', 'block acetaminophen-induced injury', 'antioxidant defense'], 'material': ['HO-1', 'heat shock protein', 'macrophages', 'hepatocytes', 'acetaminophen', 'acetaminophen', 'hepatocytes', 'macrophages', 'Hepatocytes', 'macrophages', 'acetaminophen', 'HO-1', 'ferritin', 'manganese superoxide', 'MnSOD', 'rats', 'hemin', 'HO-1 protein', 'serum bilirubin', 'hemin', 'acetaminophen', 'hepatic ferritin', 'MnSOD', 'HO-1', 'biliverdin', 'bilirubin', 'biliverdin reductase', 'biliverdin', 'HO-1']}], 'authors': 'Yousef, Mokhtar I.; El-Demerdash, Fatma M.; Kamil, Kamil I.; Elaswad, Fathia A. M.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.biochi.2009.07.002', 'journal': 'Biochimie ', 'title': 'The importance of green chemistry in process research and development'}, {'document': ['CONTEXT:  Soon after initial marketing in March 1997, troglitazone, the first thiazolidinedione antidiabetic agent, was found to cause life-threatening acute liver failure.  The drug was removed from the market in March 2000.  OBJECTIVE:  To evaluate the effect of US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) risk management efforts, including repeated labeling changes and "Dear Healthcare Professional" letters, on periodic liver enzyme monitoring of patients taking troglitazone.  DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS:  Claims data from a large, multistate managed care organization were used to establish 4 cohorts of patients (N = 7603) with at least 90 days of health plan enrollment before first troglitazone prescription during 4 consecutive periods spanning April 1997 to September 1999 and representing 4 progressively stringent liver monitoring recommendations.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES:  Percentage of eligible troglitazone users in each cohort with baseline, monthly (for up to 6 months of continuous use), and complete (baseline and monthly) enzyme monitoring, based on computerized records of laboratory claims.  RESULTS:  Baseline testing increased from 15% before any FDA monitoring recommendations (cohort 1) to 44.6% following 4 separate FDA interventions (cohort 4; P<.001).  In cohort 4, 33.4% of users had follow-up testing after 1 month of therapy, falling to 13% after 5 months of continuous use.  In all cohorts, less than 5% received all recommended liver enzyme tests by the third month of continuous use.  CONCLUSIONS:  The FDA risk management efforts did not achieve meaningful or sustained improvement in liver enzyme testing.  Evaluation of the impact of regulatory actions is needed before such actions can be regarded as effective or sufficient.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['establish 4 cohorts of patients', 'liver enzyme testing', 'Evaluation of the impact of regulatory actions'], 'process': ['US Food and Drug Administration', 'risk management efforts', 'labeling changes', 'liver enzyme monitoring', 'liver monitoring recommendations', 'complete (baseline and monthly) enzyme monitoring', 'Baseline testing', 'FDA monitoring recommendations', 'FDA interventions', 'liver enzyme tests', 'risk management efforts'], 'material': ['troglitazone', 'thiazolidinedione antidiabetic agent', 'troglitazone', 'Claims data', 'Percentage of eligible', 'computerized records of laboratory claims', 'follow-up testing']}], 'authors': 'Oz Helieh S; Im Hee-Jeong; Chen Theresa S; de Villiers Willem J S; McClain Craig J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of neurochemistry ', 'title': 'Characterization of the branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase enzyme family in tomato'}, {'document': ["Gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina is an inherited form of chorioretinal degeneration associated with hyperornithinemia.  We measured the activity of ornithine aminotransferase (L-ornithine:2-oxo-acid aminotransferase, EC 2.6.1.13) in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated lymphocytes of a patient with gyrate atrophy and her daughter.  The patient's cells had no detectable ornithine aminotransferase activity, and the activity in the heterozygote's cells was 44% of normal values.  Measurements of [3H]thymidine incorporation and other transformation-affected enzymes verified that the patient's cells were transformed.  These results demonstrate an enzyme deficiency in gyrate atrophy."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina', 'chorioretinal degeneration', 'hyperornithinemia', 'Measurements of [3H]thymidine incorporation', 'transformation-affected enzymes', 'gyrate atrophy'], 'material': ['ornithine aminotransferase', 'L-ornithine:2-oxo-acid aminotransferase', 'phytohemagglutinin-stimulated lymphocytes', 'patient with gyrate atrophy', "patient's cells", 'ornithine aminotransferase activity', "heterozygote's cells", "patient's cells"]}], 'authors': 'Gupta, Seema; Pandey, Rajesh; Katyal, Ranjan; Aggarwal, H. K.; Aggarwal, R. P.; Aggarwal, S. K.', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.reprotox.2005.09.005', 'journal': 'Reproductive Toxicology ', 'title': 'Molecular identification of ω-amidase, the enzyme that is functionally coupled with glutamine transaminases, as the putative tumor suppressor Nit2'}, {'document': ['Eight enzymes involved in the conversion of acetylglutamate to arginine in Neurospora crassa were studied.  The data indicate that of three enzymes early in the sequence, only the first, acetylglutamate kinase, is a nonorganellar enzyme.  The next two, N-acetyl-gamma-glutamyl-phosphate reductase and acetylornithine aminotransferase, are in the mitochondrion, which was previously shown to contain the subsequent enzymes: acetylornithine-glutamate acetyltransferase, ornithine carbamyltransferase, and carbamyl-phosphate synthetase A (arginine specific).  The last two enzymes of the pathway, argininosuccinate synthetase and argininosuccinate lyase, were previously shown to be cytosolic.  All enzymes but one have low amplitudes or repression.  Their levels respond little to arginine excess and are about twofold elevated (threefold for ornithine carbamyltransferase) as a result of arginine limitation in the arg-12-8 strain.  No restriction of the incorporation of mitochondrial enzymes into mitochondria could be detected when the levels of these enzymes were elevated.  Two enzymes, acetylglutamate kinase and carbamyl-phosphate synthetase A, which initiate the synthesis of the ornithine and guanidino moieties of arginine, respectively, show the lowest specific activities in crude extract.  These enzymes display special regulatroy features.  Acetylglutamate kinase, which has a typically low amplitude of repression, is subject to feedback inhibition.  Carbamyl-phosphate synthetase A is wholly insensitive to arginine or citrulline in vitro or in vivo, but displays a very large amplitude of repression (about 60-fold).  It is unique in that it can be almost completely repressed by growth of mycelia in excess arginine.  These data suggest that mitochondrial localization may be incompatible with a mechanism of feedback inhibition by a cytosolic effector, arginine.  Further, they suggest that the high repressibility of carbamyl-phosphate synthetase A compensates for its feedback insensitivity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['conversion of acetylglutamate to arginine'], 'process': ['acetylglutamate kinase', 'argininosuccinate synthetase', 'arginine limitation', 'initiate the synthesis of the ornithine and guanidino moieties of arginine', 'feedback inhibition', 'mitochondrial localization', 'feedback inhibition', 'feedback insensitivity'], 'material': ['Neurospora crassa', 'nonorganellar enzyme', 'N-acetyl-gamma-glutamyl-phosphate reductase', 'acetylornithine aminotransferase', 'mitochondrion', 'acetylornithine-glutamate acetyltransferase', 'ornithine carbamyltransferase', 'carbamyl-phosphate synthetase', 'argininosuccinate lyase', 'ornithine carbamyltransferase', 'arg-12-8 strain', 'mitochondrial enzymes', 'acetylglutamate kinase', 'carbamyl-phosphate synthetase', 'crude extract', 'Acetylglutamate', 'Carbamyl-phosphate synthetase', 'arginine', 'citrulline', 'mycelia', 'cytosolic effector', 'arginine', 'carbamyl-phosphate synthetase']}], 'authors': 'Yu Ping; Di Prospero Nicholas A; Sapko Michael T; Cai Tao; Chen Amy; Melendez-Ferro Miguel; Du Fu; Whetsell William O Jr; Guidetti Paolo; Schwarcz Robert; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of biochemical and molecular toxicology ', 'title': 'Widespread neuronal expression of branched-chain aminotransferase in the CNS: implications for leucine/glutamate metabolism and for signaling by amino acids'}, {'document': ['Amine transaminases offer an environmentally sustainable synthesis route for the prodn. of pure chiral amines.  However, their catalytic efficiency toward bulky ketone substrates is greatly limited by steric hindrance and therefore presents a great challenge for industrial synthetic applications.  We hereby report an example of rational transaminase enzyme design to help alleviate these challenges.  Starting from the Vibrio fluvialis amine transaminase that has no detectable catalytic activity toward the bulky arom. ketone 2-acetylbiphenyl, we employed a rational design strategy combining in silico and in vitro studies to engineer the transaminase enzyme with a minimal no. of mutations, achieving an high catalytic activity and high enantioselectivity.  We found that, by introducing two mutations W57G/R415A, detectable enzyme activity was achieved.  The rationally designed variant, W57F/R88H/V153S/K163F/I259M/R415A/V422A, showed an improvement in reaction rate by more than 1716-fold toward the bulky ketone under study, producing the corresponding enantiomeric pure (S)-amine (enantiomeric excess (ee) value of >99%).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn. of pure chiral amines', 'industrial synthetic applications', 'rational transaminase enzyme design', 'alleviate these challenges', 'engineer the transaminase enzyme'], 'process': ['Amine transaminases', 'synthesis route', 'rational design strategy', 'in silico and in vitro studies', 'introducing two mutations', 'improvement in reaction rate'], 'material': ['bulky ketone substrates', 'Vibrio fluvialis amine', 'bulky arom. ketone 2-acetylbiphenyl', 'rationally designed variant', 'W57F/R88H', 'bulky ketone']}], 'authors': 'Hutton Craig A; Southwood Timothy J; Turner Jennifer J', 'DOI': '10.1007/BF02893045', 'journal': 'Indian Journal of Clinical Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Ameliorating effect of folic acid on chromium(VI)-induced changes in reproductive performance and seminal plasma biochemistry in male rabbits'}, {'document': ["BACKGROUND:  Extensive epidemiologic studies have shown that cardiovascular disease and the metabolic syndrome (MetS) are associated with serum concentrations of liver enzymes; however, fundamental characteristics of this relation are currently unknown.  OBJECTIVE:  We aimed to explore the role of liver aminotransferases in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and MetS.  DESIGN:  Liver gene- and protein-expression changes of aminotransferases, including their corresponding isoforms, were evaluated in a case-control study of patients with NAFLD (n = 42), which was proven through a biopsy (control subjects: n = 10).  We also carried out a serum targeted metabolite profiling to the glycolysis, gluconeogenesis, and Krebs cycle (n = 48) and an exploration by the next-generation sequencing of aminotransferase genes (n = 96).  An in vitro study to provide a biological explanation of changes in the transcriptional level and enzymatic activity of aminotransferases was included.  RESULTS:  Fatty liver was associated with a deregulated liver expression of aminotransferases, which was unrelated to the disease severity.  Metabolite profiling showed that serum aminotransferase concentrations are a signature of liver metabolic perturbations, particularly at the amino acid metabolism and Krebs cycle level.  A significant and positive association between systolic hypertension and liver expression levels of glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 2 (GOT2) messenger RNA (Spearman R = 0.42, P = 0.03) was observed.  The rs6993 located in the 3' untranslated region of the GOT2 locus was significantly associated with features of the MetS, including arterial hypertension [P = 0.028; OR: 2.285 (95% CI: 1.024, 5.09); adjusted by NAFLD severity] and plasma lipid concentrations.  CONCLUSIONS:  In the context of an abnormal hepatic triglyceride accumulation, circulating aminotransferases rise as a consequence of the need for increased reactions of transamination to cope with the liver metabolic derangement that is associated with greater gluconeogenesis and insulin resistance.  Hence, to maintain homeostasis, the liver upregulates these enzymes, leading to changes in the amounts of amino acids released into the circulation."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['glycolysis', 'provide a biological explanation of changes in the transcriptional level and enzymatic activity of aminotransferases', 'adjusted by NAFLD severity', 'abnormal hepatic triglyceride accumulation'], 'process': ['cardiovascular disease', 'metabolic syndrome', 'MetS', 'nonalcoholic fatty liver disease', 'NAFLD', 'Liver gene- and protein-expression changes', 'biopsy', 'serum targeted metabolite profiling', 'gluconeogenesis', 'Krebs cycle', 'next-generation sequencing of aminotransferase genes', 'in vitro study', 'deregulated liver expression of aminotransferases', 'Metabolite profiling', 'liver metabolic perturbations', 'amino acid metabolism', 'Krebs cycle level', 'liver expression levels of', 'MetS', 'increased reactions of transamination', 'liver metabolic derangement', 'gluconeogenesis', 'insulin', 'maintain homeostasis', 'upregulates these enzymes'], 'material': ['serum concentrations', 'liver enzymes', 'role of liver aminotransferases', 'aminotransferases', 'case-control study', 'patients with NAFLD', 'Fatty liver', 'serum aminotransferase', 'glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase', 'GOT2', 'GOT2', 'arterial hypertension', 'plasma lipid', 'circulating aminotransferases', 'liver', 'amino acids']}], 'authors': 'Peralta C; Prats N; Xaus C; Gelpi E; Rosello-Catafau J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular and cellular biology ', 'title': 'Glutathione-enhancing agents protect against steatohepatitis in a dietary model'}, {'document': ['A review.  Recent developments in biocatalysis, where implementation beyond the lab. has been demonstrated, are explored: the use of transglutaminases to modify foods, reduce allergenicity and produce advanced materials, lipases for biodiesel prodn., and transaminases for biochem. prodn.  The availability and application of enzymes at pilot and larger scale opens up possibilities for further improvements of biocatalyst-based processes and the development of new processes.  Enzyme prodn., stability, activity, re-use, and product retrieval are common challenges for biocatalytic processes.  We explore recent advances in biocatalysis within the process chain, such as protein engineering, enzyme expression, and biocatalyst immobilization, in the context of these challenges.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['reduce allergenicity', 'development of new processes'], 'process': ['biocatalysis', 'biocatalyst-based processes', 'stability', 'activity', 're-use', 'product retrieval', 'biocatalytic processes', 'protein engineering', 'enzyme expression', 'biocatalyst immobilization'], 'material': ['advanced materials', 'lipases', 'biodiesel prodn', 'transaminases', 'biochem. prodn', 'enzymes', 'biocatalysis']}], 'authors': 'Green J M; Merkel W K; Nichols B P', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Mini reviews in medicinal chemistry ', 'title': 'Lipid peroxide levels and antioxidant status in alcoholic liver disease'}, {'document': ['A matching dehydrogenase and transaminase pair was engineered with regard to substrate recognition, catalytic activity, and cofactor specificity with the final goal to convert the bicyclic dialc. isosorbide into a diamine by a multistep biocatalytic process.  Individual catalytic turnover rates as well as coupled conversion to the amine were investigated for the enzymes in anal. assays that used the substrate isosorbide and different intermediates along the multiple pathway reaction cascade, in particular, stereoisomers of hydroxy ketones, amino alcs., and amino ketones.  For parallel screening and evaluation of mutant enzymes with regard to catalytic activities and optimal reaction conditions, a robotic platform was established that comprised all steps from bacterial protein expression to the enzymic assay.  As a result, we present a three-enzyme system composed of L. aquatica levodione reductase, an engineered P. denitrificans ω-aminotransferase, and B. subtilis alanine dehydrogenase that catalyzes formation of the isosorbide monoamine with a yield of up to ≈7 % under our anal. assay conditions.  After further optimization and adaptation to whole-cell catalysis, this enzyme system may open a biotechnol. attractive route to a structurally rigid diamine for the prodn. of biosynthetic polymer materials.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['substrate recognition', 'catalytic activity', 'convert the bicyclic dialc. isosorbide', 'Individual catalytic turnover rates', 'coupled conversion to the amine', 'parallel screening'], 'process': ['. assays', 'reaction', 'bacterial protein expression', 'enzymic assay', 'three-enzyme system', 'optimization', 'adaptation', 'whole-cell catalysis', 'enzyme system', 'prodn'], 'material': ['dehydrogenase', 'diamine', 'substrate isosorbide', 'intermediates along the multiple pathway reaction cascade', 'stereoisomers', 'hydroxy ketones', 'amino alcs', 'amino ketones', 'robotic platform', 'L. aquatica levodione reductase', 'P. denitrificans', 'ω-aminotransferase', 'B. subtilis alanine dehydrogenase', 'isosorbide monoamine', 'structurally rigid diamine', 'biosynthetic polymer materials']}], 'authors': 'Rojik, I.; Nemcsok, J.; Boross, L.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'Biochemical and phenotypic abnormalities in kynurenine aminotransferase II-deficient mice'}, {'document': ['The authors studied the electrochem. detection of aspartate transaminase (AST) and alanine transaminase (ALT) by using a multienzyme-modified electrode surface.  Detn. of the activities of transaminases in human serum is clin. significant because their concns. and ratios indicate hepatic diseases or myocardial dysfunction.  For electrochem. detection of AST and ALT, enzymes that participate in the reaction mechanism of AST and ALT, such as pyruvate oxidase (POX) and oxaloacetate decarboxylase, were immobilized on an electrode surface by using an amine-reactive self-assembled monolayer and a homobifunctional crosslinker.  In the presence of suitable substrates such as L-aspartate (L-alanine) and α-ketoglutarate, AST and ALT generate pyruvate as an enzymic end product.  To det. the activities of AST and ALT, electroanalyses of pyruvate were conducted using a POX and ferrocenemethanol electron shuttle.  Anodically generated oxidative currents from multienzyme-mediated reactions were correlated to AST and ALT levels in human plasma.  On the basis of the electrochem. anal., the authors obtained calibration results for AST and ALT concns. from 7.5 to 720 units/L in human plasma-based samples, covering the required clin. detection range.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['electrochem. detection of aspartate transaminase', 'Detn. of the activities of transaminases', 'electrochem. detection of', 'det. the activities'], 'process': ['alanine transaminase', 'hepatic diseases', 'myocardial dysfunction', 'reaction mechanism', 'electroanalyses of', 'multienzyme-mediated reactions', 'electrochem. anal'], 'material': ['AST', 'ALT', 'multienzyme-modified electrode surface', 'enzymes', 'pyruvate oxidase', 'POX', 'oxaloacetate decarboxylase', 'electrode surface', 'amine-reactive self-assembled monolayer', 'homobifunctional crosslinker', 'substrates', 'L-aspartate', 'L-alanine', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'AST', 'ALT', 'pyruvate', 'enzymic end product', 'AST', 'ALT', 'pyruvate', 'POX and ferrocenemethanol electron shuttle', 'Anodically generated oxidative currents', 'AST and ALT', 'human plasma', 'AST and ALT concns', 'human plasma-based samples']}], 'authors': 'Schechter P J; Tranier Y; Jung M J; Bohlen P', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Inhibitors of lysine biosynthesis as antibacterial agents'}, {'document': ['A strategy for the biocatalytic racemization of primary α-chiral amines was developed by employing a pair of stereocomplementary PLP-dependent ω-transaminases.  The interconversion of amine enantiomers proceeded through reversible transamination by a prochiral ketone intermediate, either catalyzed by a pair of stereocomplementary ω-transaminases or by a single enzyme possessing low stereoselectivity.  To tune the system, the type and concn. of a non-chiral amino acceptor proved to be crucial.  Finally, racemization could be achieved by the cross-transamination of two different amines without a requirement for an external amino acceptor.  Several synthetically and industrially important amines could be enzymically racemized under mild reaction conditions.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biocatalytic racemization of primary α-chiral amines', 'racemization'], 'process': ['interconversion', 'reversible transamination', 'cross-transamination', 'mild reaction conditions'], 'material': ['pair of stereocomplementary PLP-dependent ω-transaminases', 'prochiral ketone intermediate', 'pair of stereocomplementary ω-transaminases', 'a single enzyme', 'non-chiral amino acceptor', 'amines', 'external amino acceptor', 'amines']}], 'authors': 'Isaac J H; Holloway B W', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Acta Biologica Hungarica ', 'title': 'Protective effect of liver ischemic preconditioning on liver and lung injury induced by hepatic ischemia-reperfusion in the rat'}, {'document': ['Because 1% to 9% of people without symptoms have elevated liver enzymes, extensive evaluation of all abnormal test results would expose many patients to undue risks and expenses.  On the other hand, failure to evaluate minor liver enzyme elevations could mean missing the early diagnosis of potentially treatable disorders.  This review discusses likely causes of elevated aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and gamma-glutamyl transferase levels and provides algorithms for evaluating high liver enzyme values in apparently healthy patients in the primary care setting.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['extensive evaluation of all abnormal test results', 'early diagnosis of potentially treatable disorders', 'alkaline phosphatase', 'algorithms for evaluating high liver enzyme values'], 'process': ['failure to evaluate minor liver enzyme elevations', 'elevated aminotransferase'], 'material': ['elevated liver enzymes', 'gamma-glutamyl transferase levels', 'primary care setting']}], 'authors': 'Davis R H; Lawless M B; Port L A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'European journal of pharmacology ', 'title': 'Characterization and sequence of Escherichia coli pabC, the gene encoding aminodeoxychorismate lyase, a pyridoxal phosphate-containing enzyme'}, {'document': ['Drug-induced hepatotoxicity is the leading cause of acute liver failure (ALF) in the US and the most common adverse event causing drug non-approval and drug withdrawal by the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration (FDA).  Three different nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been withdrawn in the UK and/or the US due to hepatotoxicity (bromfenac, ibufenac, and benoxaprofen).  A systematic review of clinical trials data for these drugs was performed in an effort to identify possible early signals that could have predicted post-marketing serious hepatoxicity.  There were very limited published data on benoxaprofen and none on ibufenac or bromfenac.  The publicly accessible archives of the FDA provided information on bromfenac.  Flu-like symptoms associated with hepatic enzyme elevation and a case of possible drug-related hepatocellular jaundice may in retrospect have been signals for serious hepatotoxicity in the database of 1195 subjects reviewed by the FDA.  Following approval, rates of acute liver failure for bromfenac were estimated to be in the range of 1:10 000.  In addition, the safety databases of several drugs also accessed through FDA archives have been reviewed (simvastatin, tacrine, troglitazone, and ximelagatran).  These data suggest that while ALT elevations alone do not reliably signal serious hepatotoxicity, elevated transaminases in association with symptomatic hepatitis or jaundice may be predictors of an increased risk of ALF.  At present, however, pre-approval databases are generally not large enough to rule out low rates of serious hepatotoxicity.  Therefore, it remains critical that clinicians report such cases to the FDA through the MEDWATCH system and that active post-marketing monitoring studies be used to identify potential rare cases of hepatotoxicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['identify possible early signals', 'Flu-like symptoms', 'identify potential rare cases'], 'process': ['Drug-induced hepatotoxicity', 'acute liver failure', 'ALF', 'FDA', 'hepatotoxicity', 'systematic review of clinical trials data', 'hepatic enzyme elevation', 'serious hepatotoxicity', 'acute liver failure', 'ALT elevations', 'elevated transaminases', 'symptomatic hepatitis', 'ALF', 'serious hepatotoxicity', 'MEDWATCH system'], 'material': ['nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs', 'NSAIDs', 'bromfenac', 'ibufenac', 'benoxaprofen', 'benoxaprofen', 'ibufenac', 'bromfenac', 'publicly accessible archives', 'bromfenac', 'bromfenac', 'safety databases', 'simvastatin', 'tacrine', 'troglitazone', 'ximelagatran', 'pre-approval databases', 'active post-marketing monitoring studies']}], 'authors': 'Han, Sang-Woo; Park, Eul-Soo; Dong, Joo-Young; Shin, Jong-Shik', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of general microbiology ', 'title': 'Morphological and biochemical studies on liver, kidney and gill of fishes affected by pesticides'}, {'document': ['The growth of the biotrophic pathogen Cladosporium fulvum within the tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) leaf is restricted to the intercellular space.  Previous studies from this laboratory have demonstrated that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) accumulates to millimolar concentrations in the apoplast during a compatible interaction.  We decided to further investigate the role of GABA during infection.  A gene encoding a required enzyme for GABA metabolism, GABA transaminase (Gat1), was cloned and sequenced from C. fulvum.  The predicted protein sequence of Gat1 had high homology to other fungal GABA transaminases, particularly from Aspergillus nidulans.  In vitro expression experiments revealed Gat1 to be strongly expressed during fungal growth on both GABA and glutamate whereas nearly no expression was evident during nitrogen starvation conditions.  Expression of Gat1 was also apparent during infection, suggesting for the first time that C. fulvum actively metabolises GABA during infection.  This indicates that the fungus may be utilising the GABA in the apoplast as a nutrient source.  Further analysis revealed that the expression of tomato glutamate decarboxylase, the enzyme responsible for GABA synthesis, appeared appreciably higher during a compatible interaction than in the incompatible interaction.  These findings imply that the infecting fungus may alter the physiology of the tomato leaf with the result that a source of nitrogen is supplied.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['alter the physiology of the tomato leaf'], 'process': ['growth of the biotrophic pathogen', 'accumulates to millimolar concentrations in the apoplast', 'compatible interaction', 'infection', 'GABA metabolism', 'GABA transaminase', 'Gat1', 'In vitro expression experiments', 'fungal growth', 'nitrogen starvation conditions', 'infection', 'infection', 'Further analysis', 'GABA synthesis', 'compatible interaction'], 'material': ['tomato', 'Lycopersicon esculentum Mill', 'intercellular space', 'gamma-aminobutyric', 'GABA', 'GABA', 'required enzyme', 'C. fulvum', 'Gat1', 'fungal GABA', 'Aspergillus nidulans', 'Gat1', 'GABA', 'glutamate', 'Gat1', 'C. fulvum', 'GABA', 'fungus', 'GABA', 'apoplast', 'tomato glutamate decarboxylase', 'infecting fungus']}], 'authors': 'Bhattacharjee, Arin; Basu, Abhishek; Ghosh, Prosenjit; Biswas, Jaydip; Bhattacharya, Sudin', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Audiogenic seizure protection by elevated brain GABA concentration in mice: effects of gamma-acetylenic gaba and gamma-vinyl GABA, two irreversible GABA-T inhibitors'}, {'document': ['It has been suggested that serol. screening for celiac disease (CD) should be performed in patients with chronic unexplained hypertransaminasemia.  The aims were to evaluate the specificity for CD diagnosis of serum IgA antitissue transglutaminase (tTG) detn. in consecutive patients with chronic hypertransaminasemia using the most widely utilized ELISA based on tTG from guinea pig as the antigen.  We studied 98 patients with chronic hypertransaminasemia, evaluated for the first time in a hepatol. clinic.  Serum anti-tTG and antiendomysial (EmA) assays were performed.  Patients pos. for EmA and/or anti-tTG were proposed for intestinal biopsy.  Finally, all sera were reassayed for anti-tTG using an ELISA based on human recombinant tTG as the antigen.  A total of 94/98 hypertransaminasemic patients were pos. for hepatitis virus markers, with 82/98 (83%) pos. for anti-hepatitis C virus.  Liver histol. showed that most patients had mild or moderate chronic hepatitis while severe fibrosis or overt liver cirrhosis was found in 20/98.  CD screening showed that 15/98 (16%) hypertransaminasemic subjects had anti-tTG values in the same range as CD patients; however, IgA EmA were pos. in only 2/98 (2%).  Distal duodenal biopsy, performed in nine patients, showed subtotal villous atrophy in the two EmA+/anti-tTG+ patients but was normal in 7/7 EmA-/anti-tTG+ subjects.  The presence of anti-tTG+ values in EmA- patients was unrelated to particular gastrointestinal symptoms, other assocd. diseases, severity of liver histol., or distribution of viral hepatitis markers.  There was a significantly higher frequency of pos. serum autoantibodies (anti-nuclear, antimitochondrial, antismooth muscle, and anti-liver-kidney microsomal antibodies) in anti-tTG+/EmA- patients than in the other subjects (9/13 v 10/83; p<0.003).  Also, a correlation was found between serum gamma globulin and anti-tTG values (p<0.01).  When sera were tested with the ELISA based on human tTG as the antigen, no false pos. results were obsd.: only the two EmA+ patients with atrophy of the intestinal mucosa were pos. for anti-tTG while all others were neg., including those false pos. in the ELISA based on guinea pig tTG as the antigen.  In patients with elevated transaminases and chronic liver disease there was a high frequency of false pos. anti-tTG results using the ELISA based on tTG from guinea pig as the antigen.  Indeed, the presence of anti-tTG did not correlate with the presence of EmA or CD.  These false positives depend on the presence of hepatic proteins in the com. tTG obtained from guinea pig liver and disappear when human tTG is used as the antigen in the ELISA system.  We suggest that the commonly used tTG ELISA based on guinea pig antigen should not be used as a screening tool for CD in patients with chronic liver disease.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['serol. screening for celiac disease', 'CD', 'specificity for CD diagnosis'], 'process': ['chronic hypertransaminasemia', 'ELISA', 'EmA', 'intestinal biopsy', 'ELISA', 'severe fibrosis', 'CD screening', 'Distal duodenal biopsy', 'subtotal villous atrophy', 'serum autoantibodies', 'ELISA', 'atrophy of the intestinal mucosa', 'ELISA', 'elevated transaminases', 'ELISA', 'ELISA system', 'tTG ELISA', 'screening tool'], 'material': ['serum IgA antitissue transglutaminase', 'tTG', 'tTG', 'guinea pig', '98 patients', 'tTG', 'tTG', 'tTG', 'human recombinant tTG', 'hepatitis virus markers', 'anti-hepatitis C virus', 'Liver histol', 'mild or moderate chronic hepatitis', 'overt liver cirrhosis', 'CD patients', 'IgA EmA', 'anti-tTG+ values', 'severity of liver histol', 'distribution of viral hepatitis markers', 'anti-nuclear', 'antimitochondrial', 'antismooth', 'anti-liver-kidney microsomal antibodies', 'anti-tTG+/EmA- patients', 'serum gamma globulin', 'human tTG', 'EmA+ patients', 'tTG', 'guinea pig tTG', 'tTG', 'guinea pig', 'anti-tTG', 'EmA', 'CD', 'hepatic proteins', 'tTG', 'guinea pig liver', 'human tTG', 'guinea pig antigen', 'CD', 'chronic liver disease']}], 'authors': 'Perez-Jimenez, A.; Cardenete, G.; Hidalgo, M. C.; Garcia-Alcazar, A.; Abellan, E.; Morales, A. E.', 'DOI': '10.1002/adsc.201500211', 'journal': 'Advanced Synthesis & Catalysis ', 'title': 'Control of arginine biosynthesis in Pseudomonas aeruginosa'}, {'document': ['Sub-cloning experiments aimed at precisely locating the E. coli aroA gene, which encodes the shikimate pathway enzyme 5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase, showed that in certain constructions, which remain capable of complementing an auxotrophic aroA mutation, expression of aroA is reduced.  DNA sequence analysis revealed that a sequence approx. 1200 base pairs (bp) upstream of aroA is necessary for its expression.  An open reading frame was identified in this region which encodes a protein of 362 amino acids with a calculated Mr of 39,834 and which ends 70 bp before the start of the aroA coding sequence.  This gene has been identified as serC, the structural gene for 3-phosphoserine aminotransferase, an enzyme of the serine biosynthetic pathway.  Both genes are expressed as a polycistronic message which is transcribed from a promotor located 58 bp upstream of serC.  Evidence is presented which confirms that the aroA and serC genes constitute an operon which has the novel feature of encoding enzymes from two different amino acid biosynthetic pathways.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['locating the'], 'process': ['Sub-cloning experiments', 'shikimate pathway enzyme', 'aroA mutation', 'DNA sequence analysis', 'serine biosynthetic pathway', 'amino acid biosynthetic pathways'], 'material': ['aroA gene', '5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase', 'aroA', 'aroA', 'open reading frame', 'protein of 362 amino acids with a calculated Mr of 39,834 and which ends 70 bp before the start of the', 'aroA', 'serC', 'structural gene', '3-phosphoserine aminotransferase', 'polycistronic message', 'serC.', 'aroA', 'serC']}], 'authors': 'Ji Guiyuan; Yang Qinhe; Hao Jing; Guo Lina; Chen Xiang; Hu Jianping; Leng Liang; Jiang Zhuoqin', 'DOI': '10.1177/0885328214523323', 'journal': 'Journal of Biomaterials Applications ', 'title': 'Arginaseless Neurospora: genetics, physiology, and polyamine synthesis'}, {'document': ['Since skeletal muscle is the major site in the body for oxidation of leucine, isoleucine and valine, the pathway and control of leucine oxidation were investigated in cell-free preparations of rat muscle.  Leucine was found to be transaminated to 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate, which was then oxidatively decarboxylated.  On differential centrifugation 70--80% of the transaminase activity was recovered in the soluble fraction of the cell, and the remaining amount in the mitochondrial fraction.  The transaminase, from both fractions had similar pH optima and both were markedly inhibited by Ca2+.  Thus changes in cellular Ca2+ concentration may regulate transaminase activity.  Both transaminases had a much higher affinity for 2-oxoglutarate than for pyruvate.  Therefore the utilization of amino groups from leucine for the biosynthesis of alanine in muscle [Odessey, Khairallah & Goldberg (1974) J.  Biol.  Chem. 249, 7623--7629] in vivo involves transamination with 2-oxoglutarate to produce glutamate, which is then transaminated with pyruvate to produce alanine.  The dehydrogenase activity assayed by the decarboxylation of methyl-2-oxo[1-14C]pentanoate was localized exclusively in the fraction containing mitochondria and required NAD+, CoA and thiamin pyrophosphate for optimal activity.  Measurements of competitive inhibition suggested that the oxo acids of leucine, isoleucine and valine are all decarboxylated by the same enzyme.  The enzyme activity was decreased by 90% upon freezing or sonication and was stimulated severalfold by Mg2+, K+ and phosphate ions.  In addition, it was markedly inhibited by ATP, but not by non-metabolizable analogues.  This observation suggests that splitting of ATP is required for inhibition.  The oxidative decarboxylation of 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate by the dehydrogenase appears to be the rate-limiting step for leucine oxidation in muscle homogenates and also in intact tissues.  In fact, rat muscles incubated with [1-14C]leucine release 1-14C-labelled oxo acid into the medium at rates comparable with the rate of decarboxylation.  Intact muscles also released the oxo acids of [1-14C]valine or [1-14C]isoleucine, but not of other amino acids.  These findings suggest that muscle is the primary source of the branched-chain oxo acids found in the blood.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pathway and control of leucine oxidation'], 'process': ['oxidation', 'oxidatively decarboxylated', 'differential centrifugation', 'transaminase', 'utilization of amino groups from leucine', 'transamination', 'dehydrogenase', 'decarboxylation', 'freezing', 'sonication', 'splitting of ATP', 'inhibition', 'oxidative decarboxylation', 'leucine oxidation', 'decarboxylation'], 'material': ['skeletal muscle', 'leucine', 'isoleucine', 'valine', 'cell-free preparations', 'Leucine', '4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate', '70--80%', 'soluble fraction', 'mitochondrial fraction', 'Ca2', '+', 'cellular Ca2', '2-oxoglutarate', 'pyruvate', 'alanine', '2-oxoglutarate', 'glutamate', 'pyruvate', 'alanine', 'methyl-2-oxo[1-14C]pentanoate', 'mitochondria', 'NAD+', 'CoA', 'thiamin pyrophosphate', 'oxo acids', 'leucine', 'isoleucine', 'valine', 'enzyme', 'Mg2', '+', 'K+', 'phosphate ions', 'ATP', 'non-metabolizable analogues', '4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate', 'dehydrogenase', 'muscle homogenates', 'intact tissues', 'rat muscles', '[1-14C]leucine release', '1-14C-labelled oxo acid', 'muscles', '[1-14C]valine or', '[1-14C]isoleucine', 'amino', 'muscle', 'branched-chain oxo acids', 'blood']}], 'authors': 'Van Hove, Johan L. K.; Saenz, Margarita S.; Thomas, Janet A.; Gallagher, Renata C.; Lovell, Mark A.; Fenton, Laura Z.; Shanske, Sarah; Myers, Sommer M.; Wanders, Ronald J. A.; Ruiter, Jos; et al', 'DOI': '10.1007/s10695-011-9600-2', 'journal': 'Fish Physiology and Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Mechanism-Guided Engineering of ω-Transaminase to Accelerate Reductive Amination of Ketones'}, {'document': ['D-Vinylglycine (I) functions as a transamination substrate and irreversible inactivator of the homogeneous pyridoxal phosphate-dependent D-amino acid transaminases of Bacillus subtilis and B. sphaericus.  In the absence of α-ketoglutarate as co-substrate I causes little if any inactivation of either enzyme; in the presence of excess II, both enzymes are inactivated with pseudo-1st order kinetics.  Comparisons are made with the L-aspartate aminotransferase of pig heart which is inactivated completely in 1 catalytic cycle and the L-alanine aminotransferase which is not inactivated in many cycles.  Comparisons are also made between the likely mode of D-transaminase inactivation produced by I and the mode of inactivation induced by β-chloro-D-alanine.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['irreversible inactivator', 'inactivation', 'inactivated', 'D-transaminase inactivation', 'inactivation'], 'material': ['D-Vinylglycine', 'transamination substrate', 'pyridoxal phosphate-dependent D-amino acid transaminases', 'Bacillus subtilis', 'sphaericus', 'α-ketoglutarate', 'co-substrate', 'enzyme', 'II', 'enzymes', 'L-aspartate aminotransferase', 'pig heart', 'L-alanine aminotransferase', 'β-chloro-D-alanine']}], 'authors': 'Krasnikov, Boris F.; Chien, Chin-Hsiang; Nostramo, Regina; Pinto, John T.; Nieves, Edward; Callaway, Myrasol; Sun, Jin; Huebner, Kay; Cooper, Arthur J. L.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'International immunopharmacology ', 'title': 'Protective effect of Selenium nanoparticle against cyclophosphamide induced hepatotoxicity and genotoxicity in Swiss albino mice'}, {'document': ["Several pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes can convert the bound cofactor to pyridoxamine phosphate.  This conversion may be an obligatory part of the normal catalytic sequence as with transaminases, or may be an abnormal path, inactivating the enzyme.  This conversion requires protonation of the C4' atom of the cofactor, which has been shown to proceed stereospecifically and with the same abs. stereochem. in 7 quite different pyridoxal phosphate enzymes.  The stereochem. of protonation of tryptophan synthase B protein is reported.  This regularity in protonation stereochem. suggests a remarkable regularity in the geometry of cofactor binding to the apoenzyme.  This regularity is interpreted as evidence for the evolution of this entire family of enzymes from a common progenitor which, through the course of evolution, could not invert its original, arbitrary binding stereochem. without passing through catalytically inactive conformations."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['abs. stereochem', 'stereochem.'], 'process': ['convert the bound cofactor to pyridoxamine phosphate', 'protonation', 'protonation', 'not invert its original, arbitrary binding stereochem'], 'material': ['pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes', 'transaminases', "C4' atom", 'cofactor', 'pyridoxal phosphate enzymes', 'tryptophan synthase B protein', 'cofactor', 'apoenzyme', 'catalytically inactive conformations']}], 'authors': 'Han Qian; Robinson Howard; Cai Tao; Tagle Danilo A; Li Jianyong', 'DOI': '10.1203/PDR.0b013e3181e5c3a4', 'journal': 'Pediatric Research ', 'title': 'Metabolic adjustments of Dentex dentex to prolonged starvation and refeeding'}, {'document': ['In Neurospora crassa, the starvation of tryptophan mutants for tryptophan resulted in the derepression of tryptophan, histidine, and arginine biosynthetic enzymes.  This tryptophan-mediated derepression of histidine and arginine biosynthetic enzymes occurred despite the fact that the tryptophan-starved cells had a higher intracellular concentration of histidine and arginine than did nonstarved cells.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['starvation of tryptophan mutants', 'derepression of tryptophan,', 'derepression of'], 'material': ['Neurospora crassa', 'tryptophan', 'histidine', 'arginine biosynthetic enzymes', 'tryptophan', 'histidine and arginine biosynthetic enzymes', 'tryptophan-starved cells', 'histidine', 'arginine', 'nonstarved cells']}], 'authors': 'Prados, Michael D.; Yung, W. K. A.; Wen, Patrick Y.; Junck, Larry; Cloughesy, Timothy; Fink, Karen; Chang, Susan; Robins, H. Ian; Dancey, Janet; Kuhn, John', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.biochi.2009.07.003', 'journal': 'Biochimie ', 'title': 'Anti-inflammatory effect of genistein on non-alcoholic steatohepatitis rats induced by high fat diet and its potential mechanisms'}, {'document': ['Fungal infections pose a significant public health burden with high morbidity and mortality.  CD101 is a novel echinocandin under development for the treatment and prevention of systemic Candida infections.  Preclinical studies were conducted to evaluate the metabolic stability, plasma protein binding, pharmacokinetics, toxicity, and efficacy of CD101 at various dose levels.  CD101 was stable to biotransformation in rat, monkey, and human liver microsomes and rat, monkey, dog, and human hepatocytes.  In vitro studies suggest minimal interaction with recombinant cytochrome P450 enzymes (50% inhibitory concentrations [IC50s] of >10 μM).  Similar to anidulafungin, CD101 bound avidly (>98%) to human, mouse, rat, and primate plasma proteins.  In a 2-week repeat-dose comparison study, CD101 was well tolerated in rats (no effects on body weight, hematology, coagulation, or urinalysis).  In contrast, administration of anidulafungin (at comparable exposure levels) resulted in reduced body weight, decreases in red blood cell, hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean cell volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, platelet, and reticulocyte counts, increases in neutrophil and eosinophil counts, polychromasia, and decreased activated partial thromboplastin time.  Elevated plasma transaminases, total bilirubin, cholesterol, and globulin, dark and enlarged spleens, and single-cell hepatocyte necrosis were also observed for anidulafungin but not CD101.  Hepatotoxicity may be due to the inherent chemical lability of anidulafungin generating potentially reactive intermediates.  A glutathione trapping experiment confirmed the formation of a reactive species from anidulafungin, whereas CD101 did not exhibit instability or reactive intermediates.  CD101 showed antifungal activity against Candida and Aspergillus infections in neutropenic mice.  These preclinical studies demonstrated that CD101 is chemically and metabolically stable, well tolerated with no hepatotoxicity, and efficacious as an antifungal agent.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treatment and prevention of systemic Candida infections', 'metabolic stability', 'plasma protein binding', 'urinalysis'], 'process': ['Fungal infections', 'Preclinical studies', 'pharmacokinetics', 'toxicity', 'In vitro studies', 'minimal interaction', 'reduced body weight', 'increases in neutrophil and eosinophil counts', 'polychromasia', 'decreased activated partial thromboplastin time', 'Elevated plasma transaminases', 'Hepatotoxicity', 'chemical lability', 'glutathione trapping experiment', 'formation of a reactive species', 'antifungal activity', 'Aspergillus infections', 'preclinical studies'], 'material': ['CD101', 'CD101', 'CD101', 'rat, monkey, and human liver microsomes', 'rat, monkey, dog, and human hepatocytes', 'recombinant cytochrome P450 enzymes', 'anidulafungin', 'CD101', 'mouse', 'rat', 'plasma proteins', 'CD101', 'rats', 'anidulafungin', 'red blood cell', 'mean cell volume', 'mean corpuscular hemoglobin', 'platelet', 'total bilirubin', 'single-cell hepatocyte necrosis', 'anidulafungin', 'CD101', 'anidulafungin', 'potentially reactive intermediates', 'anidulafungin', 'CD101', 'reactive intermediates', 'CD101', 'CD101', 'antifungal agent']}], 'authors': 'Noland Brian W; Newman Janet M; Hendle Jorg; Badger John; Christopher Jon A; Tresser Jason; Buchanan Michelle D; Wright Tobi A; Rutter Marc E; Sanderson Wendy E; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Molecular and cellular biology ', 'title': 'Succinyl-CoA Ligase Deficiency: A Mitochondrial Hepatoencephalomyopathy'}, {'document': ['(R)-stereospecific amine transaminases (R-ATAs) are important biocatalysts for the prodn. of (R)-amine compds. in a strict stereospecific manner.  An improved R-ATA, ATA-117-Rd11, was successfully engineered for the manuf. of sitagliptin, a widely used therapeutic agent for type-2 diabetes.  The effects of the individual mutations, however, have not yet been demonstrated due to the lack of exptl. detd. structural information.  Here we describe three crystal structures of the first isolated R-ATA, its G136F mutant and engineered ATA-117-Rd11, which indicated that the mutation introduced into the 136th residue altered the conformation of a loop next to the active site, resulting in a substrate-binding site with drastically modified vol., shape, and surface properties, to accommodate the large pro-sitagliptin ketone.  Our findings provide a detailed explanation of the previously reported mol. engineering of ATA-117-Rd11 and propose that the loop near the active site is a new target for the rational design to change the substrate specificity of ATAs.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn. of (R)-amine compds', 'mol. engineering', 'change the substrate specificity'], 'process': ['mutation introduced into the 136th residue altered the conformation of a loop next to the active site', 'substrate-binding site', 'rational design'], 'material': ['(R)-stereospecific amine transaminases', 'R-ATAs', 'R-ATA', 'ATA-117-Rd11', 'sitagliptin', 'therapeutic agent', 'crystal structures', 'R-ATA', 'ATA-117-Rd11', 'sitagliptin ketone', 'ATA-117-Rd11', 'ATAs']}], 'authors': 'Chiu Hawjyh; Brittingham Jennie A; Laskin Debra L', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00280-007-0556-y', 'journal': 'Cancer Chemotherapy and Pharmacology ', 'title': 'Identification of the putative tumor suppressor Nit2 as ω-amidase, an enzyme metabolically linked to glutamine and asparagine transamination'}, {'document': ['In this review we analyse structure/sequence-function relationships for the superfamily of PLP-dependent enzymes with special emphasis on class III transaminases.  Amine transaminases are highly important for applications in biocatalysis in the synthesis of chiral amines.  In addition, other enzyme activities such as racemases or decarboxylases are also discussed.  The substrate scope and the ability to accept chemically different types of substrates are shown to be reflected in conserved patterns of amino acids around the active site.  These findings are condensed in a sequence-function matrix, which facilitates annotation and identification of biocatalytically relevant enzymes and protein engineering thereof.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['synthesis of chiral amines'], 'process': ['structure/sequence-function relationships', 'Amine transaminases', 'biocatalysis', 'enzyme activities', 'accept chemically different types of substrates', 'sequence-function matrix', 'annotation', 'identification', 'protein engineering'], 'material': ['superfamily of PLP-dependent enzymes', 'class III transaminases', 'racemases', 'decarboxylases']}], 'authors': 'Graham D J; Drinkard C R; Shatin D; Tsong Y; Burgess M J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Structure ', 'title': 'Biochemical and structural properties of mouse kynurenine aminotransferase III'}, {'document': ['Neu-Laxova syndrome (NLS) is a rare autosomal-recessive disorder characterized by a recognizable pattern of severe malformations leading to prenatal or early postnatal lethality.  Homozygous mutations in PHGDH, a gene involved in the first and limiting step in L-serine biosynthesis, were recently identified as the cause of the disease in three families.  By studying a cohort of 12 unrelated families affected by NLS, we provide evidence that NLS is genetically heterogeneous and can be caused by mutations in all three genes encoding enzymes of the L-serine biosynthesis pathway.  Consistent with recently reported findings, we could identify PHGDH missense mutations in three unrelated families of our cohort.  Furthermore, we mapped an overlapping homozygous chromosome 9 region containing PSAT1 in four consanguineous families.  This gene encodes phosphoserine aminotransferase, the enzyme for the second step in L-serine biosynthesis.  We identified six families with three different missense and frameshift PSAT1 mutations fully segregating with the disease.  In another family, we discovered a homozygous frameshift mutation in PSPH, the gene encoding phosphoserine phosphatase, which catalyzes the last step of L-serine biosynthesis.  Interestingly, all three identified genes have been previously implicated in serine-deficiency disorders, characterized by variable neurological manifestations.  Our findings expand our understanding of NLS as a disorder of the L-serine biosynthesis pathway and suggest that NLS represents the severe end of serine-deficiency disorders, demonstrating that certain complex syndromes characterized by early lethality could indeed be the extreme end of the phenotypic spectrum of already known disorders.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['certain complex syndromes'], 'process': ['Neu-Laxova syndrome', 'NLS', 'Homozygous mutations', 'L-serine biosynthesis', 'NLS', 'NLS', 'mutations in all three genes', 'L-serine biosynthesis pathway', 'PHGDH missense mutations', 'phosphoserine aminotransferase', 'L-serine biosynthesis', 'homozygous frameshift mutation', 'L-serine biosynthesis', 'serine-deficiency disorders', 'NLS', 'L-serine biosynthesis pathway', 'NLS', 'serine-deficiency disorders'], 'material': ['PHGDH', 'PSAT1', 'three different', 'PSPH', 'phosphoserine phosphatase']}], 'authors': 'Valle D; Kaiser-Kupfer M I; Del Valle L A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Toxicology and applied pharmacology ', 'title': 'Phase-1 trial of gefitinib and temozolomide in patients with malignant glioma: a North American brain tumor consortium study'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Treatment for acromegaly patients with long-acting somatotropin release-inhibiting factor (LA-SRIF) often does not result in complete normalization of IGF-1.  Addition of pegvisomant (PEGV), a GH receptor antagonist, could improve this; however, the literature has not described long-term follow-up.  OBJECTIVE:  To assess long-term efficacy and safety of this combined treatment in the largest current single-center cohort of patients, from 2004-2013.  DESIGN:  Acromegaly patients were treated for at least 6 months with a high-dose LA-SRIF.  To patients with persistently elevated IGF-1 levels (>1.2 × upper limit of normal) or poor quality of life, PEGV was added as one weekly injection.  RESULTS:  The patients (n = 141) were treated with PEGV and LA-SRIFs for a median period of 4.9 years (range, 0.5-9.2).  Efficacy, defined as the lowest measured IGF-1 level during treatment, was 97.0%.  The median PEGV dose to achieve this efficacy was 80 mg weekly (interquartile range, 60-120 mg).  Combination treatment-related adverse events were recorded in 26 subjects (18.4%).  Pituitary tumor size increase was observed in one patient.  Injection-site reactions were observed in four subjects.  In 19 patients (13.5%), transiently elevated liver transaminases of more than three times the upper limit of normal were observed, of which 83% occurred within the first year of combination treatment.  Eight patients died, at a mean age of 71 years; none of them were considered treatment-related.  CONCLUSIONS:  The combination treatment with LA-SRIFs and PEGV was effective in 97% of the patients, it appears to be a safe medical treatment and it reduces the required dose of PEGV.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Treatment for acromegaly patients with', 'assess long-term efficacy and safety of this combined treatment'], 'process': ['PEGV', 'Efficacy', 'Combination treatment', 'Pituitary tumor size increase', 'Injection-site reactions', 'combination treatment', 'combination treatment', 'medical treatment', 'reduces the required dose of'], 'material': ['long-acting somatotropin', 'LA-SRIF', 'pegvisomant', 'GH receptor antagonist', 'Acromegaly patients', 'high-dose LA-SRIF', 'PEGV', 'PEGV', 'LA-SRIFs', 'PEGV', 'transiently elevated liver transaminases', 'LA-SRIFs', 'PEGV', 'PEGV']}], 'authors': 'Cybis J; Davis R H', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'JAMA ', 'title': 'Structural studies of Salmonella typhimurium ArnB (PmrH) aminotransferase: a 4-amino-4-deoxy-L-arabinose lipopolysaccharide-modifying enzyme'}, {'document': ['Screening of 60 transaminases using three different amine donors found that the ω-transaminase from Vibrio fluvialis together with (S)-α-methylbenzylamine to be the most promising combination to deliver the desired (S)-1-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-ethylamine (2) in almost quant. conversion.  The process was further improved by the addn. of immiscible org. solvents with toluene identified as most suitable concerning the distribution of the reactants without neg. impacting the performance of the biocatalyst.  Further process optimization using com. enzyme prepns. of V. fluvialis led to product/catalyst ratios of 15 g/g cell dry wt.  This approach led to a process that provided (S)-1-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-ethylamine (2) in 77% yield with 99.8% ee.  In addn., a recombinant E. coli-based whole-cell biocatalyst was also designed and applied to this process.  The use of this low cost enzyme formulation gave product of similar quality to that obtained using the com. formulation of V. fluvialis.  This process was further optimized and scaled-up to deliver (S)-1-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-ethylamine (2)-with a yield of 66% and an optical purity of 97.3% ee.  These results confirm the efficiency and competitiveness of the transaminase technol. for the prodn. of chiral amines.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['distribution of the', 'a recombinant E. coli-based whole-cell biocatalyst', 'prodn. of chiral amines'], 'process': ['Screening of 60 transaminases', 'addn. of immiscible org. solvents', 'process optimization', 'product/catalyst ratios', 'process'], 'material': ['three different amine donors', 'ω-transaminase', 'Vibrio fluvialis', '(S)-α-methylbenzylamine', 'toluene', 'reactants without neg', 'biocatalyst', 'com. enzyme prepns', 'V. fluvialis', '(S)-1-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-ethylamine (', '2', 'low cost enzyme formulation', 'com. formulation', 'V. fluvialis', '(S)-1-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-ethylamine (2)-with']}], 'authors': 'Dourado, Daniel F. A. R.; Pohle, Stefan; Carvalho, Alexandra T. P.; Dheeman, Dharmendra S.; Caswell, Jill M.; Skvortsov, Timofey; Miskelly, Iain; Brown, Rodney T.; Quinn, Derek J.; Allen, Christopher C. R.; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Differential induction of heme oxygenase-1 in macrophages and hepatocytes during acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity in the rat: effects of hemin and biliverdin'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Protection against dengue requires immunity against all 4 serotypes of dengue virus (DENV).  Experimental challenge may be useful in evaluating vaccine-induced immunity.  METHODS:  Ten subjects previously vaccinated with a live attenuated tetravalent dengue vaccine (TDV) and 4 DENV-naive control subjects were challenged by subcutaneous inoculation of either 10(3) plaque-forming units (PFU) of DENV-1 or 10(5) PFU of DENV-3.  Two additional subjects who did not develop DENV-3 neutralizing antibody (NAb) from TDV were revaccinated with 10(4) PFU of live attenuated DENV-3 vaccine to evaluate memory response.  RESULTS:  All 5 TDV recipients were protected against DENV-1 challenge.  Of the 5 TDV recipients challenged with DENV-3, 2 were protected.  All DENV-3-challenge subjects who developed viremia also developed elevated liver enzyme levels, and 2 had values that were >10 times greater than normal.  Of the 2 subjects revaccinated with DENV-3 vaccine, 1 showed a secondary response to DENV-2, while neither showed such response to DENV-3.  All 4 control subjects developed dengue fever from challenge.  Protection was associated with presence of NAb, although 1 subject was protected despite a lack of measurable NAb at the time of DENV-1 challenge.  CONCLUSIONS:  Vaccination with TDV induced variable protection against subcutaneous challenge.  DENV-3 experimental challenge was associated with transient but marked elevations of transaminases.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Protection against dengue', 'evaluating vaccine-induced immunity'], 'process': ['Experimental challenge', 'challenged', 'subcutaneous inoculation', 'NAb', 'memory response', 'secondary response', 'Vaccination with', 'subcutaneous challenge', 'experimental challenge', 'elevations of transaminases'], 'material': ['dengue virus', 'DENV', 'live attenuated tetravalent dengue vaccine', 'TDV', 'DENV-naive control subjects', 'DENV-1', 'DENV-3', 'DENV-3 neutralizing antibody', 'TDV', 'live attenuated DENV-3 vaccine', 'TDV recipients', 'DENV-3', 'DENV-3-challenge subjects', 'elevated liver enzyme', 'DENV-3 vaccine', 'DENV-2', 'DENV-3', 'control subjects', 'NAb', 'NAb', 'TDV']}], 'authors': 'Sookoian Silvia; Castano Gustavo O; Scian Romina; Fernandez Gianotti Tomas; Pirola Carlos J; Dopazo Hernan; Rohr Cristian; Gaj Graciela; San Martino Julio; Sevic Ina; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Liver enzyme monitoring in patients treated with troglitazone'}, {'document': ["UNLABELLED:  The bacterial ω-transaminase from Chromobacterium violaceum (Cv-ωTA, EC2.6.1.18) catalyses industrially important transamination reactions by use of the coenzyme pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP).  Here, we present four crystal structures of Cv-ωTA: two in the apo form, one in the holo form and one in an intermediate state, at resolutions between 1.35 and 2.4 ÅA.  The enzyme is a homodimer with a molecular mass of ∼ 100 kDa.  Each monomer has an active site at the dimeric interface that involves amino acid residues from both subunits.  The apo-Cv-ωTA structure reveals unique 'relaxed' conformations of three critical loops involved in structuring the active site that have not previously been seen in a transaminase.  Analysis of the four crystal structures reveals major structural rearrangements involving elements of the large and small domains of both monomers that reorganize the active site in the presence of PLP.  The conformational change appears to be triggered by binding of the phosphate group of PLP.  Furthermore, one of the apo structures shows a disordered 'roof ' over the PLP-binding site, whereas in the other apo form and the holo form the 'roof' is ordered.  Comparison with other known transaminase crystal structures suggests that ordering of the 'roof' structure may be associated with substrate binding in Cv-ωTA and some other transaminases.  DATABASE:  The atomic coordinates and structure factors for the Chromobacterium violaceumω-transaminase crystal structures can be found in the RCSB Protein Data Bank (http://www.rcsb.org)under the accession codes 4A6U for the holoenzyme, 4A6R for the apo1 form, 4A6T for the apo2 form and 4A72 for the mixed form  STRUCTURED DIGITAL ABSTRACT:  .bul.  -transaminases and -transaminases bind by dynamic light scattering (View interaction) .bul. -transaminase and -transaminase bind by x-ray crystallography (View interaction) .bul. -transaminase and -transaminase bind by x-ray crystallography (View interaction)."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['transamination reactions', 'structuring the active site', 'major structural rearrangements', 'reorganize the active site in the presence', 'conformational change', 'PLP-binding site', 'Comparison', 'crystal structures', "ordering of the 'roof' structure", 'substrate binding', 'dynamic light scattering', 'x-ray crystallography'], 'material': ['bacterial ω-transaminase', 'Cv-ωTA', "coenzyme pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (", 'PLP', 'crystal structures', 'Cv-ωTA', 'apo form', 'holo form', 'monomer', 'amino acid residues', 'apo-Cv-ωTA', 'transaminase', 'crystal structures', 'PLP', 'phosphate group', 'PLP', 'apo structures', "disordered 'roof '", 'apo form', 'holo', 'Cv-ωTA', 'transaminases', 'atomic coordinates', 'Chromobacterium violaceumω-transaminase', 'crystal structures', 'RCSB', 'Protein Data Bank', 'holoenzyme', 'apo1 form', 'apo2 form', '-transaminases', '-transaminase', '-transaminase', '-transaminase', '-transaminase', 'x-ray crystallography']}], 'authors': "Narancic, Tanja; Davis, Reeta; Nikodinovic-Runic, Jasmina; O'Connor, Kevin E.", 'DOI': '10.1021/acscatal.6b02380', 'journal': 'ACS Catalysis ', 'title': 'Gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina: deficiency of ornithine aminotransferase in transformed lymphocytes'}, {'document': ['Liver ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is assocd. with profound arginine depletion due to arginase release from injured hepatocytes.  The purpose of this study was to det. whether arginase inhibition with Nω-hydroxy-nor-L-arginine (nor-NOHA) would increase circulating arginine levels and decrease hepatic damage during liver I/R injury.  The effects of nor-NOHA were initially tested in normal animals to det. in vivo toxicity.  In the second series of expts., orthotopic syngeneic liver transplantation (OLT) was performed after 18 h of cold ischemia time in Lewis rats.  Animals were given nor-NOHA (100 mg/kg) or saline before and after graft reperfusion.  In normal animals treated with nor-NOHA, there were no histopathol. changes to organs, liver enzymes, serum creatinine, or body wt.  In the OLT model, animals treated with saline exhibited markedly elevated serum transaminases and circulating arginase protein levels.  Nor-NOHA administration blunted the increase in serum arginase activity by 80% and preserved serum arginine levels at 3 h after OLT.  Nor-NOHA treatment reduced post-OLT serum liver enzyme release by 50%.  Liver histol. (degree of necrosis) in nor-NOHA-treated animals was markedly improved compared with the saline-treated group.  Furthermore, use of the arginase inhibitor nor-NOHA did not influence polyamine synthesis owing to the decrease in ornithine levels.  Arginase blockade represents a potentially novel strategy to combat hepatic I/R injury assocd. with liver transplantation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['det. whether', 'decrease hepatic damage', 'det. in vivo toxicity', 'OLT model', 'combat hepatic I/R injury'], 'process': ['Liver ischemia-reperfusion (', 'I', 'profound arginine depletion', 'arginase release', 'arginase inhibition', 'OLT', 'cold ischemia time', 'graft reperfusion', 'polyamine synthesis', 'decrease in ornithine levels', 'Arginase blockade', 'liver transplantation'], 'material': ['hepatocytes', 'Nω-hydroxy-nor-L', 'nor', 'NOHA', 'nor-NOHA', 'orthotopic syngeneic liver transplantation', 'Lewis rats', 'nor-NOHA', 'saline', 'nor-NOHA', 'liver enzymes', 'serum creatinine', 'animals treated with saline', 'serum transaminases', 'circulating arginase protein', 'Nor', '-NOHA', 'Nor', 'NOHA', 'Liver histol', 'nor-NOHA-treated animals', 'saline-treated group', 'arginase inhibitor', 'nor', 'NOHA']}], 'authors': 'Lerchner, Alexandra; Achatz, Stefan; Rausch, Christian; Haas, Thomas; Skerra, Arne', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The American journal of clinical nutrition ', 'title': 'Organization and control in the arginine biosynthetic pathway of Neurospora'}, {'document': ["Twenty putative aminotransferase (AT) proteins of Corynebacterium glutamicum, or rather pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzymes, were isolated and assayed among others with L-glutamate, L-aspartate, and L-alanine as amino donors and a number of 2-oxo-acids as amino acceptors.  One outstanding AT identified is AlaT, which has a broad amino donor specificity utilizing (in the order of preference) L-glutamate > 2-aminobutyrate > L-aspartate with pyruvate as acceptor.  Another AT is AvtA, which utilizes L-alanine to aminate 2-oxo-isovalerate, the L-valine precursor, and 2-oxo-butyrate.  A second AT active with the L-valine precursor and that of the other two branched-chain amino acids, too, is IlvE, and both enzyme activities overlap partially in vivo, as demonstrated by the analysis of deletion mutants.  Also identified was AroT, the aromatic AT, and this and IlvE were shown to have comparable activities with phenylpyruvate, thus demonstrating the relevance of both ATs for L-phenylalanine synthesis.  We also assessed the activity of two PLP-containing cysteine desulfurases, supplying a persulfide intermediate.  One of them is SufS, which assists in the sulfur transfer pathway for the Fe-S cluster assembly.  Together with the identification of further ATs and the additional analysis of deletion mutants, this results in an overview of the ATs within an organism that may not have been achieved thus far."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['aminotransferase (', 'AT', 'AT', 'L-phenylalanine synthesis', 'sulfur transfer pathway', 'identification'], 'material': ["pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (", 'L-glutamate', 'L-aspartate', 'L-alanine', 'number of 2-oxo-acids', 'AlaT', 'L-glutamate', '2-aminobutyrate', 'L-aspartate', 'pyruvate', 'AvtA', 'L-alanine', '2-oxo-isovalerate', 'L-valine precursor', '2-oxo-butyrate', 'L-valine precursor', 'branched-chain amino acids', 'deletion mutants', 'AroT', 'aromatic AT', 'phenylpyruvate', 'ATs', 'PLP-containing cysteine desulfurases', 'persulfide intermediate', 'SufS', 'Fe-S cluster assembly', 'ATs', 'deletion mutants', 'ATs']}], 'authors': 'Han, Yong-Duk; Song, Seung-Yeon; Lee, Jun-Hwang; Lee, Dae-Sik; Yoon, Hyun-C.', 'DOI': '10.1007/s10529-014-1762-4', 'journal': 'Biotechnology Letters ', 'title': "Rational Design of a (S)-Selective-Transaminase for Asymmetric Synthesis of (1S)-1-(1,1'-biphenyl-2-yl)ethanamine"}, {'document': ['PURPOSE:  The purpose is to identify the demographic, physiologic, and inheritable factors that influence CYP3A activity in cancer patients.  EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN:  A total of 134 patients (62 females; age range, 26 to 83 years) underwent the erythromycin breath test as a phenotyping probe of CYP3A.  Genomic DNA was screened for six variants of suspected functional relevance in CYP3A4 (CYP3A4*1B, CYP3A4*6, CYP3A4*17, and CYP3A4*18) and CYP3A5 (CYP3A5*3C and CYP3A5*6).  RESULTS:  CYP3A activity (AUC(0-40 min)) varied up to 14-fold in this population.  No variants in the CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 genes were a significant predictor of CYP3A activity (P > 0.2954).  CYP3A activity was reduced by approximately 50% in patients with concurrent elevations in liver transaminases and alkaline phosphatase or elevated total bilirubin (P < 0.001).  In a multivariate analysis, CYP3A activity was not significantly influenced by age, sex, and body size measures (P > 0.05), but liver function combined with the concentration of the acute-phase reactant, alpha-1 acid glycoprotein, explained approximately 18% of overall variation in CYP3A activity (P < 0.001).  CONCLUSIONS:  These data suggest that baseline demographic, physiologic, and chosen genetic polymorphisms have a minor impact on phenotypic CYP3A activity in patients with cancer.  Consideration of additional factors, including the inflammation marker C-reactive protein, as well as concomitant use of other drugs, food constituents, and complementary and alternative medicine with inhibitory and inducible effects on CYP3A, is needed to reduce variation in CYP3A and treatment outcome to anticancer therapy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['identify the demographic, physiologic, and inheritable factors', 'CYP3A', 'CYP3A', 'phenotypic CYP3A activity', 'reduce variation in CYP3A'], 'process': ['erythromycin breath test', 'elevations in liver transaminases', 'multivariate analysis', 'liver function', 'inflammation marker', 'anticancer therapy'], 'material': ['phenotyping probe', 'Genomic DNA', 'CYP3A4', 'CYP3A4', 'CYP3A4', '*', '6', 'CYP3A4', '*', '17', 'CYP3A4', '18', 'CYP3A5', 'CYP3A5', 'CYP3A5', '6', 'CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 genes', 'CYP3A', 'elevated total bilirubin', 'CYP3A', 'acute-phase reactant', 'alpha-1 acid glycoprotein', 'C-reactive', 'drugs', 'food constituents', 'complementary and alternative medicine']}], 'authors': 'Koszelewski, Dominik; Grischek, Barbara; Glueck, Silvia M.; Kroutil, Wolfgang; Faber, Kurt', 'DOI': '10.1002/cctc.201300284', 'journal': 'ChemCatChem ', 'title': 'Serum aminotransferases in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease are a signature of liver metabolic perturbations at the amino acid and Krebs cycle level'}, {'document': ["We have determined the complete nucleotide sequence of a 6.3-kb chromosomal HpaI-EcoRI fragment, that contains the structural genes for both the large and small subunits of the Escherichia coli K-12 glutamate synthase (GOGAT) enzyme, as well as the 5'- and 3'-flanking and intercistronic DNA regions.  The Mrs of the two subunits, as deduced from the nucleotide (nt) sequence, were estimated as 166,208 and 52,246.  Partial amino acid sequence of the GOGAT enzyme revealed that the large subunit starts with a cysteine residue that is probably generated by a proteolytic cleavage.  Northern blotting experiments revealed a transcript of approximately 7300 nt, that at least contains the cistrons for both subunits.  A transcriptional start point and a functional promoter were identified in the 5' DNA flanking region of the large subunit gene.  The messenger RNA nontranslated leader region has 120 nt and shares identity with the leader regions of E. coli ribosomal operons, in particular around the so-called boxA sequence implicated in antitermination.  Other possible regulatory sequences are described."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Mrs of the two subunits'], 'process': ['proteolytic cleavage', 'Northern blotting experiments', 'boxA sequence'], 'material': ['HpaI-EcoRI fragment', 'structural genes', 'large and small subunits', 'Escherichia coli', 'K-12 glutamate synthase', 'GOGAT', "5'- and 3'-flanking and intercistronic DNA regions", 'Partial amino acid sequence', 'GOGAT enzyme', 'large subunit', 'cysteine residue', 'transcript', 'functional promoter', "5' DNA flanking region", 'large subunit gene', 'messenger RNA nontranslated leader region', 'leader regions', 'E. coli ribosomal operons']}], 'authors': 'Aragon George; Younossi Zobair M', 'DOI': '10.1007/s00216-011-4797-6', 'journal': 'Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry ', 'title': 'Recent developments in biocatalysis beyond the laboratory'}, {'document': ['The effects of acute and chronic exposures to a sublethal concn. (1.7 mg/L) of oxydemeton-methyl (Metasystox)  [301-12-2] on the activities of branchial enzymes Na, K-dependent and Mg-dependent ATPase  [9000-83-3], alk. phosphatase  [9001-78-9], acid phosphatase  [9001-77-8], aspartate aminotransferase  [9000-97-9], and alanine aminotransferase  [9000-86-6] were detd.  While chronic and acute treatments inhibited Na, K-dependent and Mg-dependent ATPases concns., an insignificant rise in the activities of alk. and acid phosphatases was noticed in the acute treatment.  However, both chronic exposures decreased the activities of these phosphatases.  A progressive accumulation of the transaminases, with a max. occurring after 30 days, was recorded.  The significance of the results are discussed.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['alk. phosphatase', 'acid phosphatase', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'chronic and acute treatments', 'acute treatment', 'chronic exposures', 'accumulation of the transaminases'], 'material': ['sublethal concn', 'oxydemeton-methyl', 'Na, K-dependent and Mg-dependent ATPase', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'Na, K-dependent and Mg-dependent ATPases', 'alk', 'acid phosphatases']}], 'authors': 'Goldkind Lawrence; Laine Loren', 'DOI': '10.1002/chem.201001602', 'journal': 'Chemistry - A European Journal ', 'title': 'Coupled Enzymatic Alcohol-to-Amine Conversion of Isosorbide using Engineered Transaminases and Dehydrogenases'}, {'document': ['The activities of six enzymes which take part in the oxidation of valine by Pseudomonas putida were measured under various conditions of growth.  The formation of four of the six enzymes was induced by growth on d- or l-valine: d-amino acid dehydrogenase, branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase, 3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase, and methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase.  Branched-chain amino acid transaminase and isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase were synthesized constitutively. d-Amino acid dehydrogenase and branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase were induced during growth on valine, leucine, and isoleucine, and these enzymes were assumed to be common to the metabolism of all three branched-chain amino acids.  The segment of the pathway required for oxidation of isobutyrate was induced by growth on isobutyrate or 3-hydroxyisobutyrate without formation of the preceding enzymes. d-Amino acid dehydrogenase was induced by growth on l-alanine without formation of other enzymes required for the catabolism of valine. d-Valine was a more effective inducer of d-amino acid dehydrogenase than was l-valine.  Therefore, the valine catabolic pathway was induced in three separate segments: (i) d-amino acid dehydrogenase, (ii) branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase, and (iii) 3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase plus methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase.  In a study of the kinetics of formation of the inducible enzymes, it was found that 3-hydroxyisobutyrate and methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenases were coordinately induced.  Induction of enzymes of the valine catabolic pathway was studied in a mutant that had lost the ability to grow on all three branched-chain amino acids.  Strain PpM2106 had lowered levels of branched-chain amino acid transaminase and completely lacked branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase when grown in medium which contained valine.  Addition of 2-ketoisovalerate, 2-ketoisocaproate, or 2-keto-3-methylvalerate to the growth medium of strain PpM2106 resulted in induction of normal levels of branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase; therefore, the branched-chain keto acids were the actual inducers of branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['activities of six enzymes', 'metabolism of all three branched-chain amino acids', 'valine catabolic pathway', 'study of the kinetics of formation of the inducible enzymes'], 'process': ['oxidation', 'oxidation', 'catabolism', 'Induction of enzymes of the valine catabolic pathway', 'lowered levels of', 'induction of normal levels'], 'material': ['Pseudomonas putida', 'd- or l-valine', 'd-amino acid dehydrogenase', 'branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase', '3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase', 'methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase', 'Branched-chain amino acid transaminase', 'isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase', 'd-Amino acid dehydrogenase', 'branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase', 'valine', 'leucine', 'isoleucine', 'isobutyrate', '3-hydroxyisobutyrate', 'd-Amino acid dehydrogenase', 'l-alanine', 'enzymes', 'd-Valine', 'd-amino acid dehydrogenase', 'l-valine', 'd-amino acid dehydrogenase', 'branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase', '3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase', 'methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase', '3-hydroxyisobutyrate', 'methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenases', 'branched-chain amino', 'PpM2106', 'branched-chain amino acid transaminase', 'branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase', 'valine', '2-ketoisovalerate', '2-ketoisocaproate', '2-keto-3-methylvalerate', 'growth medium', 'branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase', 'branched-chain keto', 'branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase']}], 'authors': 'Solomon Peter S; Oliver Richard P', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cleveland Clinic journal of medicine ', 'title': 'Multienzyme-modified biosensing surface for the electrochemical analysis of aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase in human plasma'}, {'document': ['The use of transaminases to access pharmaceutically relevant chiral amines is an attractive alternative to transition-metal-catalysed asymmetric chemical synthesis.  However, one major challenge is their limited substrate scope.  Here we report the creation of highly active and stereoselective transaminases starting from fold class I.  The transaminases were developed by extensive protein engineering followed by optimization of the identified motif.  The resulting enzymes exhibited up to 8,900-fold higher activity than the starting scaffold and are highly stereoselective (up to >99.9% enantiomeric excess) in the asymmetric synthesis of a set of chiral amines bearing bulky substituents.  These enzymes should therefore be suitable for use in the synthesis of a wide array of potential intermediates for pharmaceuticals.  We also show that the motif can be engineered into other protein scaffolds with sequence identities as low as 70%, and as such should have a broad impact in the field of biocatalytic synthesis and enzyme engineering.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['access pharmaceutically relevant chiral amines', 'creation of highly active and stereoselective transaminases', 'synthesis of a wide array of potential intermediates'], 'process': ['extensive protein engineering', 'optimization of the identified motif', 'asymmetric synthesis', 'pharmaceuticals', 'biocatalytic synthesis', 'enzyme engineering'], 'material': ['transaminases', 'transition-metal-catalysed asymmetric chemical synthesis', 'transaminases', 'enzymes', 'starting scaffold', 'chiral amines', 'enzymes', 'protein scaffolds']}], 'authors': 'Carroccio, A.; Giannitrapani, L.; Soresi, M.; Not, T.; Iacono, G.; Di Rosa, C.; Panfili, E.; Notarbartolo, A.; Montalto, G.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Pharmacoepidemiology and drug safety ', 'title': 'Enzymatic Racemization of Amines Catalyzed by Enantiocomplementary ω-Transaminases'}, {'document': ['Despite of the advantages that enzyme immobilization can bring to industrial biocatalysis, its utilization is still limited to a small no. of enzymes and processes.  Transaminase catalyzed processes are a good example where immobilization can be of major importance and even decisive for economic feasibility.  This work presents results obtained for screening of enzyme carriers for immobilization of ω-transaminase for industrial application.  A total of 6 com. enzyme carriers (polymeric resins) were screened and two suitable enzyme carriers were selected for immobilization of both (S)- and (R)-selective ω-transaminases.  These carriers allowed the re-use of the immobilized enzyme for 8 cycles of 24 h each, under relevant process conditions, corresponding to approx. 250 h of operation, with more than 50% of the initial activity retained.  Likewise the stability towards higher temps. and possibility to store the biocatalyst for more than 70 days (at room temp.) were obtained as result of the immobilization on the selected supports.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['screening of enzyme carriers', 'industrial application'], 'process': ['enzyme immobilization', 'Transaminase catalyzed processes', 'immobilization', 'immobilization of ω-transaminase', 'immobilization', 'immobilization'], 'material': ['com. enzyme carriers', 'polymeric resins', 'enzyme carriers', 'immobilized enzyme', 'biocatalyst', 'selected supports']}], 'authors': 'Duncan K; Coggins J R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Planta ', 'title': 'When and how to evaluate mildly elevated liver enzymes in apparently healthy patients'}, {'document': ['The mitochondrial enzyme glutaminase C (GAC) catalyzes the hydrolysis of glutamine to glutamate plus ammonia, a key step in the metabolism of glutamine by cancer cells.  Recently, we discovered a class of allosteric inhibitors of GAC that inhibit cancer cell growth without affecting their normal cellular counterparts, with the lead compound being the bromo-benzophenanthridinone 968.  Here, we take advantage of mouse embryonic fibroblasts transformed by oncogenic Dbl, which hyperactivates Rho GTPases, together with (13)C-labeled glutamine and stable-isotope tracing methods, to establish that 968 selectively blocks the enhancement in glutaminolysis necessary for satisfying the glutamine addiction of cancer cells.  We then determine how 968 inhibits the catalytic activity of GAC.  First, we developed a FRET assay to examine the effects of 968 on the ability of GAC to undergo the dimer-to-tetramer transition necessary for enzyme activation.  We next demonstrate how the fluorescence of a reporter group attached to GAC provides a direct read-out of the binding of 968 and related compounds to the enzyme.  By combining these fluorescence assays with newly developed GAC mutants trapped in either the monomeric or dimeric state, we show that 968 has the highest affinity for monomeric GAC and that the dose-dependent binding of 968 to GAC monomers directly matches its dose-dependent inhibition of enzyme activity and cellular transformation.  Together, these findings highlight the requirement of tetramer formation as the mechanism of GAC activation and shed new light on how a distinct class of allosteric GAC inhibitors impacts the metabolic program of transformed cells.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['inhibit cancer cell growth', 'satisfying the glutamine addiction of cancer cells', 'determine how 968'], 'process': ['glutaminase C', 'hydrolysis of glutamine', 'metabolism of glutamine', 'stable-isotope tracing methods', 'enhancement in glutaminolysis', 'inhibits the catalytic activity', 'FRET assay', 'dimer-to-tetramer transition', 'enzyme activation', 'fluorescence assays', 'cellular transformation', 'tetramer formation', 'activation'], 'material': ['mitochondrial enzyme', 'GAC', 'glutamate', 'ammonia', 'allosteric inhibitors', 'GAC', 'bromo-benzophenanthridinone 968', 'mouse embryonic fibroblasts', 'Dbl', 'Rho GTPases', '(13)C-labeled glutamine', '968', 'GAC', 'GAC', 'reporter group', 'GAC', '968', 'newly developed', 'GAC', '968', 'monomeric GAC', '968', 'GAC monomers', 'GAC', 'allosteric GAC inhibitors']}], 'authors': 'Odessey R; Goldberg A L', 'DOI': '10.1136/gut.49.4.506', 'journal': 'Gut ', 'title': 'A systematic review of NSAIDs withdrawn from the market due to hepatotoxicity: lessons learned from the bromfenac experience'}, {'document': ['The current toolkit of biocatalysts for the prodn. of enantiomerically pure chiral amines is largely restricted to amine transaminases, ammonia lyases, or the genetic variants of monoamine oxidase N(MAO-N) from Aspergillus niger.  Flavin-dependent amine oxidases have the apparent advantage of using mol. oxygen as a stoichiometric oxidant and their reactions are irreversible.  To expand the toolkit and increase the substrate spectrum of a bacterial and flavin-dependent cyclohexylamine oxidase (CHAO) to enable deracemization of secondary amines, satn. mutagenesis of 11 amino acid residues located around the cyclohexanone substrate within a distance of 5 Å, followed by iterative satn. mutagenesis of four beneficial mutants, were performed.  Screening with 2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline as the substrate generated two improved CHAO variants, T198FL199S and T198FL199SM226F, that exhibited up to 406 times higher catalytic efficiency than the wild-type CHAO.  Besides, high stereoselectivity for 2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline and other 2-substituted-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolines was demonstrated.  In particular, deracemization of 2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline by Escherichia coli whole cells expressing CHAO mutant T198FL199SM226F led to the prodn. of (R)-2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline with high yield (76%) and enantiomeric excess (ee, 98%).  Tetrahydroquinolines are important building blocks of natural and synthetic products useful in the pharmaceutical and agrochem. industries.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn. of enantiomerically pure chiral amines', 'increase the substrate spectrum', 'high stereoselectivity'], 'process': ['deracemization', 'mutagenesis', 'iterative satn', 'mutagenesis', 'Screening', 'deracemization', 'prodn', 'ee'], 'material': ['amine transaminases', 'ammonia lyases', 'genetic variants', 'monoamine oxidase N(MAO', 'Flavin-dependent amine oxidases', 'mol. oxygen', 'flavin-dependent cyclohexylamine oxidase', 'CHAO', 'secondary amines', 'satn', 'cyclohexanone substrate', '2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline', 'CHAO variants', 'T198FL199S', 'T198FL199SM226F', 'wild-type CHAO', '2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline', '2-substituted-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolines', '2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline', 'Escherichia coli whole cells', 'CHAO mutant', '(R)-2-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline', 'Tetrahydroquinolines', 'building blocks', 'natural and synthetic products']}], 'authors': 'Soper, Thomas S.; Manning, James M.; Marcotte, Patrick A.; Walsh, Christopher T.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Evidence that gamma-aminobutyric acid is a major nitrogen source during Cladosporium fulvum infection of tomato'}, {'document': ['AIMS:  Lupeol, a triterpene, possesses numerous pharmacological activities, including anti-malarial, anti-arthritic and anti-carcinogenic properties.  The present study was conducted to explore the hepatoprotective potential of lupeol against acetaminophen (AAP)-induced hepatotoxicity in Wistar rats.  MAIN METHODS:  Rats were given a prophylactic treatment of lupeol (150 mg/kg body weight, p.o., for 30 consecutive days) with a co-administration of AAP (1 g/kg body weight).  The modulatory effects of lupeol on AAP-induced hepatotoxicity were investigated by assaying oxidative stress biomarkers, serum liver toxicity markers, pro/anti apoptotic proteins, DNA fragmentation and by the histopathological examination of the liver.  KEY FINDINGS:  Lupeol significantly prevented hepatic damage as evident from the histopathological studies and significant decline in serum trans-aminases.  The alterations in cellular redox status (p<0.01) and antioxidant enzyme activities together with the enhanced lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyl levels were also observed in the AAP-treated rats.  In addition, significant ROS generation and mitochondrial depolarization were observed in this group.  Co-administration of lupeol significantly decreased the level of serum transaminases, MDA and protein carbonyl content.  It also prevented ROS generation and mitochondrial depolarization.  Furthermore, lupeol enhanced the mitochondrial antioxidant and redox status and inhibited DNA damage and cell death by preventing the downregulation of Bcl-2, upregulation of Bax, release of cytochrome c and the activation of caspase 9/3.  SIGNIFICANCE:  The conclusion of this study is that lupeol when co-administered with AAP effectively reduces oxidative stress and prevents AAP-induced hepatotoxicity by inhibiting critical control points of apoptosis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['anti-malarial', 'anti-arthritic and anti-carcinogenic properties', 'hepatoprotective potential of', 'modulatory effects', 'enhanced lipid peroxidation'], 'process': ['prophylactic treatment', 'DNA fragmentation', 'histopathological examination', 'hepatic damage', 'alterations in cellular redox status', 'antioxidant enzyme activities', 'protein carbonyl levels', 'ROS generation', 'mitochondrial depolarization', 'prevented ROS generation', 'mitochondrial depolarization', 'DNA damage', 'downregulation of Bcl-2', 'upregulation of', 'release of cytochrome c', 'activation of caspase 9/3.', 'reduces oxidative stress', 'prevents AAP', 'inhibiting critical control points of apoptosis'], 'material': ['Lupeol', 'lupeol', 'lupeol', 'co-administration', 'AAP', 'lupeol', 'AAP', 'oxidative stress biomarkers', 'serum liver toxicity markers', 'pro/anti apoptotic proteins', 'Lupeol', 'serum trans-aminases', 'AAP', 'lupeol', 'serum transaminases', 'MDA', 'protein carbonyl', 'lupeol', 'Bax', 'lupeol', 'AAP']}], 'authors': 'Dunathan, H. C.; Voet, J. G.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Guinea pig transglutaminase immunolinked assay does not predict coeliac disease in patients with chronic liver disease'}, {'document': ['Triphenyltin (TPT) is known to cause endocrine disruption, reproductive toxicity, and a decrease in testosterone prodn.  It is involved in the prodn. of reactive oxygen species.  Propolis has been reported to be an important antioxidant.  Therefore, the present study aimed to elucidate the possible protective effects of propolis in alleviating the toxicity of triphenyltin chloride (TPTCl) on reproductive performance, testosterone levels, lipid peroxidn., and enzyme activities in seminal plasma of male New Zealand white rabbits.  Animals were orally administered the doses of propolis, TPTCl, and propolis plus TPTCl every day for 12 wk.  Semen quality was deteriorated following treatment with TPTCl.  Also, testosterone levels, body wt. (BW), and relative wts. of testes (RWT) and epididymis (RWE) were decreased.  Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances and lactate dehydrogenase were increased while glutathione S-transferase, transaminases, and phosphatases were decreased in seminal plasma of rabbits treated with TPTCl compared to control.  Propolis alone significantly increased testosterone levels, BW, RTW, REW, semen characteristics, and seminal plasma enzymes and decreased the levels of free radicals and lactate dehydrogenase.  Furthermore, the presence of propolis with TPTCl alleviated its toxic effects.  Thus, propolis can be effective in the protection of TPTCl-induced reproductive toxicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['prodn.', 'protection of TPTCl-induced reproductive toxicity'], 'process': ['endocrine disruption', 'reproductive toxicity', 'alleviating the toxicity of triphenyltin chloride', 'lipid peroxidn.', 'enzyme activities', 'orally administered the doses', 'Semen quality', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'BW'], 'material': ['Triphenyltin', 'TPT', 'testosterone', 'Propolis', 'antioxidant', 'propolis', 'TPTCl', 'testosterone', 'seminal plasma', 'male New Zealand white rabbits', 'propolis', 'TPTCl', 'propolis', 'TPTCl', 'TPTCl', 'testosterone', 'RWT', 'RWE', 'Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances', 'seminal plasma', 'rabbits', 'TPTCl', 'Propolis', 'testosterone', 'seminal plasma enzymes', 'free radicals', 'lactate', 'propolis', 'TPTCl', 'propolis']}], 'authors': 'Carsiotis M; Jones R F', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Biological Chemistry ', 'title': 'The serC-aro A operon of Escherichia coli. A mixed function operon encoding enzymes from two different amino acid biosynthetic pathways'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Although non-heart-beating donors have the potential to increase the number of available organs, the livers are used very seldom because of the risk of primary non-function.  There is evidence that machine perfusion is able to improve the preservation of marginal organs, and therefore we evaluated in our study the influence of the perfusate temperature during oxygenated machine perfusion on the graft quality.  METHODS:  Livers from male Wistar rats were harvested after 60-min warm ischemia induced by cardiac arrest.  The portal vein was cannulated and the liver flushed with Lifor (Lifeblood Medical, Inc.) organ preservation solution for oxygenated machine perfusion (MP) at 4, 12 or 21 degrees C.  Other livers were flushed with HTK and stored at 4 degrees C by conventional cold storage (4 degrees C-CS).  Furthermore two groups with either warm ischemic damage only or without any ischemic damage serve as control groups.  After 6h of either machine perfusion or cold storage all livers were normothermic reperfused with Krebs-Henseleit buffer, and functional as well as structural data were analyzed.  RESULTS:  Contrary to livers stored by static cold storage, machine perfused livers showed independently of the perfusate temperature a significantly decreased enzyme release of hepatic transaminases (ALT) during isolated reperfusion.  Increasing the machine perfusion temperature to 21 degrees C resulted in a marked reduction of portal venous resistance and an increased bile production.  CONCLUSIONS:  Oxygenated machine perfusion improves viability of livers after prolonged warm ischemic damage.  Elevated perfusion temperature of 21 degrees C reconstitutes the hepatic functional capacity better than perfusion at 4 or 12 degrees C.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['primary non-function', 'improve the preservation of marginal organs', 'hepatic functional capacity'], 'process': ['machine perfusion', 'oxygenated machine perfusion', 'cardiac arrest', 'oxygenated machine perfusion', 'MP', 'conventional cold storage', 'warm ischemic damage', 'ischemic damage', 'machine perfusion', 'cold storage', 'enzyme release of hepatic transaminases', 'Increasing the machine perfusion temperature to 21 degrees C', 'bile production', 'Oxygenated machine perfusion', 'warm ischemic damage', 'Elevated perfusion temperature', 'perfusion'], 'material': ['non-heart-beating donors', 'livers', 'Livers', 'male Wistar rats', 'portal vein', 'liver flushed with Lifor', 'organ preservation solution', 'Krebs-Henseleit buffer', 'functional as well as structural data', 'machine perfused livers', 'ALT', 'portal venous', 'livers']}], 'authors': 'Ong Voon; Hough Grayson; Schlosser Michael; Bartizal Ken; Balkovec James M; James Kenneth D; Krishnan B Radha', 'DOI': '10.1073/pnas.71.10.3888', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Leucine degradation in cell-free extracts of skeletal muscle'}, {'document': ['Detoxification of the mycotoxin fumonisin B(1) comprises at least two enzymatic steps, an initial deesterification reaction, followed by deamination of the resulting hydrolyzed fumonisin B(1).  In this study, two genes that are responsible for degradation of fumonisin B(1) by the bacterium Sphingopyxis sp.  MTA144 were identified within a gene cluster, assumed to be associated with fumonisin degradation.  The first gene encodes a protein which shows similarity to carboxylesterases, type B.  The second gene encodes a polypeptide homologous to aminotransferases, class III.  The two genes were isolated and expressed heterologously.  The effect of the recombinant enzymes on fumonisin B(1) and hydrolyzed fumonisin B(1) was determined.  The recombinant carboxylesterase was shown to catalyze the deesterification of fumonisin B(1) to hydrolyzed fumonisin B(1).  The heterologously expressed aminotransferase was shown to deaminate hydrolyzed fumonisin B(1) in the presence of pyruvate and pyridoxal phosphate.  We propose that the consecutive action of these two enzymes is sufficient for fumonisin B(1) detoxification.  The results of this work provide a basis for the development of an enzymatic detoxification process for fumonisin B(1) in food and animal feed, especially under oxygen limited conditions, as they are found, e.g. in ensilaged forage or in the intestinal tract of animals.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['two genes', 'detoxification'], 'process': ['Detoxification of the mycotoxin fumonisin B(1', 'enzymatic steps', 'deesterification reaction', 'deamination', 'degradation of fumonisin B(1)', 'fumonisin degradation', 'deesterification of fumonisin B(1)', 'deaminate hydrolyzed fumonisin B(1)', 'enzymatic detoxification process'], 'material': ['Sphingopyxis sp.', 'carboxylesterases', 'aminotransferases', 'recombinant enzymes', 'fumonisin', 'hydrolyzed fumonisin', 'carboxylesterase', 'heterologously expressed aminotransferase', 'pyruvate', 'pyridoxal', 'fumonisin', 'food and animal feed', 'oxygen', 'ensilaged forage', 'intestinal tract']}], 'authors': 'Guan, Li-Jun; Ohtsuka, Jun; Okai, Masahiko; Miyakawa, Takuya; Mase, Tomoko; Zhi, Yuehua; Hou, Feng; Ito, Noriyuki; Iwasaki, Akira; Yasohara, Yoshihiko; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Inactivation of bacterial D-amino acid transaminases by the olefinic amino acid D-vinylglycine'}, {'document': ["The catabolic pathway for branched-chain amino acids includes deamination followed by oxidative decarboxylation of the deaminated product branched-chain alpha-keto acids, catalyzed by the mitochondrial branched-chain aminotransferase (BCATm) and branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase enzyme complex (BCKDC).  We found that BCATm binds to the E1 decarboxylase of BCKDC, forming a metabolon that allows channeling of branched-chain alpha-keto acids from BCATm to E1.  The protein complex also contains glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH1), 4-nitrophenylphosphatase domain and non-neuronal SNAP25-like protein homolog 1, pyruvate carboxylase, and BCKDC kinase.  GDH1 binds to the pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate (PMP) form of BCATm (PMP-BCATm) but not to the pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-BCATm and other metabolon proteins.  Leucine activates GDH1, and oxidative deamination of glutamate is increased further by addition of PMP-BCATm.  Isoleucine and valine are not allosteric activators of GDH1, but in the presence of 5'-phosphate-BCATm, they convert BCATm to PMP-BCATm, stimulating GDH1 activity.  Sensitivity to ADP activation of GDH1 was unaffected by PMP-BCATm; however, addition of a 3 or higher molar ratio of PMP-BCATm to GDH1 protected GDH1 from GTP inhibition by 50%.  Kinetic results suggest that GDH1 facilitates regeneration of the form of BCATm that binds to E1 decarboxylase of the BCKDC, promotes metabolon formation, branched-chain amino acid oxidation, and cycling of nitrogen through glutamate."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['catabolic pathway', 'stimulating GDH1 activity'], 'process': ['deamination', 'oxidative decarboxylation', 'mitochondrial branched-chain aminotransferase', 'E1 decarboxylase', 'channeling of branched-chain alpha-keto acids', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'oxidative deamination', 'ADP activation of GDH1', 'GTP inhibition', 'regeneration of the form of BCATm', 'metabolon formation', 'branched-chain amino acid oxidation', 'cycling of nitrogen'], 'material': ['branched-chain amino acids', 'branched-chain alpha-keto acids', 'BCATm', 'branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase enzyme complex', 'BCKDC', 'BCATm', 'BCKDC', 'metabolon', 'BCATm', 'GDH1', '4-nitrophenylphosphatase domain', 'non-neuronal SNAP25-like protein homolog', 'pyruvate carboxylase', 'BCKDC kinase', 'GDH1', "pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate (", 'PMP', 'PMP-BCATm', "pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-BCATm", 'metabolon proteins', 'Leucine', 'GDH1', 'PMP-BCATm', 'Isoleucine', 'valine', "5'-phosphate-BCATm", 'BCATm', 'PMP-BCATm', 'PMP-BCATm', 'PMP-BCATm', 'GDH1', 'GDH1', 'GDH1', 'E1 decarboxylase', 'BCKDC', 'glutamate']}], 'authors': 'Steffen-Munsberg Fabian; Vickers Clare; Mallin Hendrik; Nobili Alberto; Skalden Lilly; Kohls Hannes; Land Henrik; Berglund Per; van den Bergh Tom; Joosten Henk-Jan; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy ', 'title': 'Stereochemical evidence for the evolution of pyridoxal phosphate enzymes of various function from a common ancestor'}, {'document': ['Glutamate-putrescine ligase (gamma-glutamylputrescine synthetase, PuuA, EC 6.3.1.11) catalyzes the gamma-glutamylation of putrescine, the first step in a novel putrescine utilization pathway involving gamma-glutamylated intermediates, the Puu pathway, in Escherichia coli.  In this report, the character and physiological importance of PuuA are described.  Purified non-tagged PuuA catalyzed the ATP-dependent gamma-glutamylation of putrescine.  The K(m) values for glutamate, ATP, and putrescine are 2.07, 2.35, and 44.6 mm, respectively.  There are two putrescine utilization pathways in E. coli: the Puu pathway and the pathway without gamma-glutamylation.  Gene deletion experiments of puuA, however, indicated that the Puu pathway was more critical in utilizing putrescine as a sole carbon or nitrogen source.  The transcription of puuA was induced by putrescine and in a puuR-deleted strain.  The amino acid sequences of PuuA and glutamine synthetase (GS) show high similarity.  The molecular weights of the monomers of the two enzymes are quite similar, and PuuA exists as a dodecamer as does GS.  Moreover the two amino acid residues of E. coli GS that are important for the metal-catalyzed oxidation of the enzyme molecule involved in protein turnover are conserved in PuuA, and it was experimentally shown that the corresponding amino acid residues in PuuA were involved in the metal-catalyzed oxidation similarly to GS.  It is suggested that the intracellular concentration of putrescine is optimized by PuuA transcriptionally and posttranslationally and that excess putrescine is converted to a nutrient source by the Puu pathway.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['gamma-glutamylation of putrescine', 'putrescine utilization pathway', 'Puu pathway', 'ATP-dependent gamma-glutamylation of putrescine', 'putrescine utilization pathways', 'Puu pathway', 'pathway without gamma-glutamylation', 'Gene deletion experiments', 'Puu pathway', 'transcription', 'glutamine synthetase', 'metal-catalyzed oxidation', 'protein turnover', 'metal-catalyzed oxidation', 'Puu pathway'], 'material': ['Glutamate-putrescine ligase', 'gamma-glutamylputrescine synthetase', 'PuuA', 'gamma-glutamylated intermediates', 'Escherichia coli', 'PuuA', 'non-tagged PuuA', 'glutamate', 'ATP', 'putrescine', 'E. coli', 'puuA', 'putrescine', 'puuA', 'putrescine', 'puuR-deleted strain', 'amino acid sequences', 'PuuA', 'GS', 'enzymes', 'PuuA', 'GS', 'amino acid residues', 'E. coli', 'GS', 'PuuA', 'amino acid residues', 'PuuA', 'GS', 'intracellular concentration', 'putrescine', 'excess putrescine', 'nutrient source']}], 'authors': 'Acuna-Hidalgo Rocio; van de Vorst Maartje; Steehouwer Marloes; Pfundt Rolph; Gilissen Christian; Schanze Denny; Zenker Martin; Kariminejad Ariana; Kariminejad Mohamad Hasan; Ghaderi-Sohi Siavash; et al', 'DOI': '10.1038/srep10753', 'journal': 'Scientific Reports ', 'title': 'Cross-pathway regulation: tryptophan-mediated control of histidine and arginine biosynthetic enzymes in Neurospora crassa'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND & AIMS:  AZD0865 belongs to a new class of acid-suppressing agents with rapid onset of action and potent acid inhibition.  We evaluated its effectiveness for healing reflux esophagitis.  METHODS:  One thousand five hundred twenty-one patients with Los Angeles A-D esophagitis and heartburn of moderate or severe intensity for > or = 4 days/week were randomized to AZD0865 25, 50, or 75 mg or esomeprazole 40 mg once daily for 4-8 weeks.  The primary end point was esophagitis healing by AZD0865 at 4 weeks.  Healing and control of heartburn were also assessed at 2, 4, and 8 weeks for AZD0865 and esomeprazole.  RESULTS:  After 4 weeks of treatment, healing rates were similar among AZD0865 doses (76.9%; confidence interval [CI], 72.4%-81.1%); 78.2% (CI, 73.7%-82.3%), and 81.1% (CI, 76.7%-84.9%) for 25, 50, and 75 mg, respectively).  The healing rate with esomeprazole at 4 weeks was similar (81.9%; CI, 77.6%-88.7%), and healing rates also were comparable among all treatments at 2 and 8 weeks.  There were no significant differences in heartburn control among treatments.  AZD0865 and esomeprazole were well-tolerated, although reversible increases in transaminases occurred in a small number of patients receiving AZD0865, especially at the 75-mg dose.  CONCLUSIONS:  AZD0865 25, 50, and 75 mg provided similar efficacy to esomeprazole 40 mg in terms of esophagitis healing and heartburn control.  These findings suggest that increasing the degree of acid inhibition beyond that already achieved by esomeprazole 40 mg (or AZD0865 25 mg) does not translate into increased clinical efficacy in esophagitis patients.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['healing reflux esophagitis', 'esophagitis healing', 'esophagitis healing'], 'process': ['acid-suppressing agents', 'acid inhibition', 'Healing', 'healing rates', 'healing', 'healing', 'heartburn control', 'increasing the degree of acid inhibition'], 'material': ['AZD0865', 'AZD0865', 'esomeprazole', 'AZD0865', 'esomeprazole', 'AZD0865 doses', 'esomeprazole', 'AZD0865', 'esomeprazole', 'AZD0865', 'AZD0865', 'esomeprazole', 'esomeprazole', 'AZD0865', 'esophagitis patients']}], 'authors': 'Neggers S J C M M; Franck S E; de Rooij F W M; Dallenga A H G; Poublon R M L; Feelders R A; Janssen J A M J L; Buchfelder M; Hofland L J; Jorgensen J O L; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Biotechnology advances ', 'title': 'Preclinical Evaluation of the Stability, Safety, and Efficacy of CD101, a Novel Echinocandin'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  This study aims to determine demographic, clinical and laboratory profile along with disease outcome of all confirmed cases of dengue fever (DF) and dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) admitted in King Abdulaziz Hospital & Oncology Center, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.  We also want to highlight the significance of implementing a well targeted community based disease prevention program.  METHODS:  All patients admitted from May 2004 till April 2005 with a suspected diagnosis of DF and DHF were followed.  All cases confirmed by a positive serology (IgM alone or IgM and IgG) to dengue fever were studied in detail to determine age, gender, ethnicity, monthly distribution, clinical and laboratory profile.  RESULTS:  A total of 80 patients were admitted with a suspected diagnosis of DF.  Among these, 39 (48.75%) patients were confirmed by positive serology to have the disease.  Male to female ratio was 3.3:1.  Their ages ranged from 2 to 60 years with a mean of 27.6 +/- 11.2.  Twelve patients were Saudis, while the rest were non-Saudis coming from different countries in Asia, Africa and Middle East.  Maximum number of patients (48.72%) was seen in the summer months of June, July and August.  Commonest presentation was fever (100%), headache (48.72%), myalgias (66.7%) and vomiting (25.64%).  Rash, hemorrhagic manifestations and positive tourniquet test were relatively uncommon.  Only two patients fulfilled WHO criteria of DHF.  Main hematological abnormalities were thrombocytopenia (79.49%) and leucopenia (48.72%).  Significant elevation of PTT was observed in 25.64% of patients.  Abnormal liver function tests with high transaminases were seen in about 66.7% of patients, whereas 33.33% of patients had significantly elevated creatine kinase.  All patients improved clinically with improvement of chemical and hematological parameters.  None of the patients died in this series.  CONCLUSION:  DF continues to be a significant health problem in Western region of Saudi Arabia.  Large number of pilgrims coming from disease endemic areas all over the world facilitates the continued introduction of dengue virus with different strains.  Fortunately there has been no serious outbreak of dengue fever in recent years.  A sharp vigilance is required by concerned authorities to prevent and minimize any future outbreak.  It is extremely important to implement and maintain an effective, sustainable and community based disease prevention program.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['determine demographic, clinical and laboratory profile along with disease outcome', 'implementing a well targeted community based disease prevention program', 'DF', 'DF', 'prevent and minimize any future outbreak', 'implement and maintain an effective, sustainable and community based disease prevention program'], 'process': ['dengue fever', 'DF', 'dengue hemorrhagic fever', 'DHF', 'DF', 'DHF', 'positive serology', 'dengue fever', 'fever', 'headache', 'myalgias', 'vomiting', 'Rash', 'positive tourniquet test', 'DHF', 'hematological abnormalities', 'thrombocytopenia', 'leucopenia', 'elevation of PTT', 'Abnormal liver function tests', 'dengue fever'], 'material': ['IgM alone', 'IgM and IgG', 'Saudis', 'non-Saudis', 'dengue virus']}], 'authors': 'Meadows, Rebecca E.; Mulholland, Keith R.; Schurmann, Martin; Golden, Michael; Kierkels, Hans; Meulenbroeks, Elise; Mink, Daniel; May, Oliver; Squire, Christopher; Straatman, Harrie; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'American journal of human genetics ', 'title': 'A new target region for changing the substrate specificity of amine transaminases'}, {'document': ['Acrylamide is neurotoxic to experimental animals and humans.  Also, it has mutagenic and carcinogenic effects.  The present study was carried out to investigate the effects of different doses of acrylamide on some enzyme activities and lipid peroxidation in male rats.  Animals were assigned at random to one of the following treatments: group 1 served as control, while groups 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 were treated with 0.5, 5, 25, 50, 250 and 500 microg/kg body weight of acrylamide, respectively in drinking water for 10 weeks.  Acrylamide significantly decreased plasma protein levels and the activity of creatine kinase, while increased plasma phosphatases.  The activities of transaminases and phosphatases were significantly decreased in liver and testes, while lactate dehydrogenase did not change compared to control group.  Plasma and brain acetylcholinesterase activity was significantly decreased.  The concentration of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, and the activities of glutathione S-transferase and superoxide dismutase in plasma, liver, testes, brain, and kidney were increased in acrylamide-treated rats.  On the other hand, results obtained showed that acrylamide significantly reduced the content of sulfhydryl groups and protein in different tissues.  The present results showed that different doses of acrylamide exerted deterioration effects on enzyme activities and lipid peroxidation in a dose-dependent manner.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['increased plasma phosphatases'], 'process': ['lipid peroxidation', 'decreased plasma protein levels', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'Plasma and brain acetylcholinesterase activity', 'glutathione S-transferase', 'superoxide dismutase', 'reduced the content of sulfhydryl groups', 'different doses', 'lipid peroxidation'], 'material': ['Acrylamide', 'acrylamide', 'acrylamide', 'drinking water', 'Acrylamide', 'liver', 'thiobarbituric acid reactive substances', 'liver', 'testes', 'acrylamide', 'acrylamide', 'acrylamide']}], 'authors': 'Sun Wellington; Eckels Kenneth H; Putnak J Robert; Lyons Arthur G; Thomas Stephen J; Vaughn David W; Gibbons Robert V; Fernandez Stefan; Gunther Vicky J; Mammen Mammen P Jr; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism ', 'title': 'Bioinformatic analysis of a PLP-dependent enzyme superfamily suitable for biocatalytic applications'}, {'document': ['Niacin extended-release/lovastatin is a new combination product approved for treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia.  This open-labeled, multicenter study evaluated the safety of bedtime niacin extended-release/lovastatin when dosed as initial therapy and patient compliance to treatment in various clin. practice settings.  A total of 4,499 patients with dyslipidemia requiring drug intervention was enrolled at 1,081 sites.  Patients were treated with 1 tablet (500 mg of niacin extended-release/20 mg of lovastatin) once nightly for 4 wk and then 2 tablets for 8 wk.  Patients also received dietary counseling, educational materials, and reminders to call a toll-free no. that provided further education about dyslipidemia and niacin extended-release/lovastatin.  Primary end points were study compliance, increases in liver transaminases to >3 times the upper limit of normal, and clin. myopathy.  Final study status was available for 4,217 patients (94%).  Compliance to niacin extended-release/lovastatin was 77%, with 3,245 patients completing the study.  Patients in the southeast and those enrolled by endocrinologists had the lowest compliance and highest adverse event rates.  Flushing was the most common adverse event, reported by 18% of patients and leading to discontinuation by 6%.  Incidence of increased aspartate aminotransferase and/or alanine aminotransferase >3 times the upper limit of normal was <0.3%.  An increase of creatine phosphokinase to >5 times the upper limit of normal occurred in 0.24% of patients, and no cases of drug-induced myopathy were obsd.  Niacin extended-release/lovastatin 1,000/40 mg, dosed as initial therapy, was assocd. with good compliance and safety and had very low incidences of increased liver and muscle enzymes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia', 'patient compliance to treatment', 'dyslipidemia', 'clin. myopathy', 'drug-induced myopathy'], 'process': ['study compliance', 'increases in liver transaminases to >3 times the upper limit of normal', 'Flushing', 'discontinuation', 'increased aspartate aminotransferase and/or alanine aminotransferase', 'increase of creatine phosphokinase to >5 times the upper limit of normal occurred in 0.24% of patients'], 'material': ['Niacin extended-release/lovastatin', 'combination product', 'open-labeled, multicenter study', 'niacin extended-release/lovastatin', '1 tablet', '500 mg of niacin extended-release/20 mg', 'lovastatin', '2 tablets', 'dietary counseling', 'educational materials', 'niacin extended-release/lovastatin', 'niacin extended-release/lovastatin', 'Niacin', 'extended-release/lovastatin']}], 'authors': 'Humble Maria S; Cassimjee Karim E; Hakansson Maria; Kimbung Yengo R; Walse Bjorn; Abedi Vahak; Federsel Hans-Jurgen; Berglund Per; Logan Derek T', 'DOI': '10.1021/op400131h', 'journal': 'Organic Process Research & Development ', 'title': 'Neu-Laxova syndrome is a heterogeneous metabolic disorder caused by defects in enzymes of the L-serine biosynthesis pathway'}, {'document': ['Drug-induced acute liver failure (ALF) is a devastating and often fatal disease mainly caused by poisoning by acetaminophen (APAP).  The toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone-imine (NAPQI), that leads to gluthatione depletion has been suspected to be the main effector of hepatocyte apoptosis during APAP-induced ALF.  We have investigated whether reactive oxygen species (ROS) also play a role in APAP-induced ALF, and whether manganese III tetrakis (5,10,15,20 benzoic acid) (MnTBAP), a mimic of superoxide dismutase (SOD) with catalase-like activity, can treat the disease in mice.  The effects of MnTBAP were tested on APAP-intoxicated mice and on isolated hepatocytes incubated with APAP.  MnTBAP preventively and curatively administered significantly improved survival times, and dramatically reduced serum transaminase activity levels and parenchymal lesions in APAP-intoxicated mice.  Whereas pretreatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) prevented ALF in a dose-dependent manner, the molecule was ineffective when curatively administered.  The significant increase in glutathione peroxidase (Gpx) activity following APAP administration, and the beneficial effects of MnTBAP suggested that ROS were produced during APAP-induced ALF.  A direct evidence of ROS generation was provided by flow cytometry of isolated hepatocytes incubated with APAP.  In vitro, ROS production was associated with mitochondrial damage characterized by the collapse of transmembrane potential and the loss of cardiolipin content.  In livers of intoxicated mice, ALF was associated with cytochrome c release that led to the activation of caspases-9 and -3.  The capacity of MnTBAP to abrogate all those alterations suggests that ROS play a role in APAP-induced apoptosis of hepatocytes, and explains the beneficial effects of MnTBAP, which could be of interest in APAP-induced ALF in humans.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Drug-induced acute liver failure', 'ALF', 'poisoning by acetaminophen', 'depletion has', 'hepatocyte apoptosis', 'ALF', 'ALF', 'superoxide dismutase', 'treat the disease in mice', 'parenchymal lesions', 'pretreatment', 'ALF', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'ALF', 'ROS generation', 'flow cytometry', 'ROS production', 'mitochondrial damage', 'collapse of transmembrane potential', 'ALF', 'cytochrome c release'], 'material': ['APAP', 'toxic metabolite', 'N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone-imine', 'NAPQI', 'gluthatione', 'reactive oxygen species', 'ROS', 'manganese III tetrakis', 'MnTBAP', 'SOD', 'MnTBAP', 'APAP-intoxicated mice', 'isolated hepatocytes', 'APAP', 'MnTBAP', 'serum transaminase activity levels', 'APAP-intoxicated mice', 'N-acetyl-L', 'cysteine', 'NAC', 'Gpx', 'APAP', 'MnTBAP', 'ROS', 'APAP', 'isolated hepatocytes', 'APAP', 'cardiolipin', 'MnTBAP', 'ROS', 'APAP', 'MnTBAP', 'APAP']}], 'authors': 'Reid, Kaye M.; Tsung, Allan; Kaizu, Takahashi; Jeyabalan, Geetha; Ikeda, Atsushi; Shao, Lifang; Wu, Guoyao; Murase, Noriko; Geller, David A.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of infectious diseases ', 'title': 'Long-term efficacy and safety of pegvisomant in combination with long-acting somatostatin analogs in acromegaly'}, {'document': ['Enzyme modulation by cadmium in selected organs of the fish, B. conchonius (rosy barb), was investigated in vivo (48 h exposure to 12.6 mg/L cadmium chloride) and in vitro (10-6M cadmium chloride).  The acetylcholinesterase activity was depressed in the gills but stimulated in the skeletal muscles and brain in vivo.  The hepatic, branchial, and renal acid phosphatase (AcP) activity decreased marginally in vivo but it was significantly increased in the gut and ovary.  In vitro, except for the liver, the AcP activity was depressed in the selected organs.  Collaterally, gut alk. phosphatase (AlP) was significantly inhibited but a pronounced stimulation was noted in the kidneys and ovary in vivo.  In vitro, the AlP activity was conspicuously elevated in the kidneys and gut, and moderately in the gills.  Cadmium inhibited the glutamate-oxaloacetate and glutamate-pyruvate transaminases (GOT and GPT) in the liver, gills and kidneys in vivo.  In vitro, the GOT and GPT activities were decreased in the liver, gills and kidneys.  The dehydrogenase was significantly stimulated by Cd in the heart in vivo but in vitro the metal inhibited the enzyme in the gills.  Enzymes in the liver, followed by those in the kidneys and gills seem to be most seriously affected by Cd poisoning in this fish.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Enzyme modulation by cadmium'], 'process': ['acetylcholinesterase activity', 'hepatic, branchial, and renal acid phosphatase', 'AcP', 'AcP activity', 'gut alk. phosphatase', 'AlP', 'AlP activity', 'glutamate-pyruvate transaminases', 'GOT', 'GPT', 'GOT', 'GPT', 'dehydrogenase', 'poisoning'], 'material': ['B. conchonius', 'rosy barb', 'cadmium chloride', '10-6M', 'cadmium chloride', 'gills', 'skeletal muscles', 'gut', 'liver', 'Cadmium', 'glutamate-oxaloacetate and', 'liver', 'liver', 'Cd', 'metal', 'gills', 'Enzymes', 'liver', 'Cd', 'fish']}], 'authors': 'Marienhagen Jan; Kennerknecht Nicole; Sahm Hermann; Eggeling Lothar', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The FEBS journal ', 'title': 'Efficient Synthesis of (S)-1-(5-Fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)ethylamine Using an ω-Transaminase Biocatalyst in a Two-Phase System'}, {'document': ['Salmonella typhimurium forms the heme precursor delta-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) exclusively from glutamate via the five-carbon pathway, which also occurs in plants and some bacteria including Escherichia coli, rather than by ALA synthase-catalyzed condensation of glycine and succinyl-coenzyme A, which occurs in yeasts, fungi, animal cells, and some bacteria including Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Rhodobacter capsulatus.  ALA-auxotrophic hemL mutant S. typhimurium cells are deficient in glutamate-1-semialdehyde (GSA) aminotransferase, the enzyme that catalyzes the last step of ALA synthesis via the five-carbon pathway. hemL cells transformed with a plasmid containing the S. typhimurium hemL gene did not require ALA for growth and had GSA aminotransferase activity.  Growth in the presence of ALA did not appreciably affect the level of extractable GSA aminotransferase activity in wild-type cells or in hemL cells transformed with the hemL plasmid.  These results indicate that GSA aminotransferase activity is required for in vivo ALA biosynthesis from glutamate.  In contrast, extracts of both wild-type and hemL cells had gamma,delta-dioxovalerate aminotransferase activity, which indicates that this reaction is not catalyzed by GSA aminotransferase and that the enzyme is not encoded by the hemL gene.  The S. typhimurium hemL gene was sequenced and determined to contain an open reading frame of 426 codons encoding a 45.3-kDa polypeptide.  The sequence of the hemL gene bears no recognizable similarity to the hemA gene of S. typhimurium or E. coli, which encodes glutamyl-tRNA reductase, or to the hemA genes of B. japonicum or R. capsulatus, which encode ALA synthase.  The predicted hemL gene product does show greater than 50% identity to barley GSA aminotransferase over its entire length.  Sequence similarity to other aminotransferases was also detected.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['five-carbon pathway', 'ALA synthase-catalyzed condensation', 'ALA synthesis', 'GSA aminotransferase activity', 'GSA aminotransferase activity', 'ALA biosynthesis', 'GSA aminotransferase', 'ALA synthase'], 'material': ['Salmonella typhimurium', 'heme precursor', 'delta-aminolevulinic', 'ALA', 'glutamate', 'bacteria', 'Escherichia coli', 'glycine', 'succinyl-coenzyme', 'yeasts', 'fungi', 'animal cells', 'bacteria', 'Bradyrhizobium', 'japonicum', 'Rhodobacter', 'ALA-auxotrophic hemL mutant', 'S. typhimurium cells', 'glutamate-1-semialdehyde', 'GSA', 'enzyme', 'hemL cells', 'S. typhimurium hemL gene', 'ALA', 'ALA', 'wild-type cells', 'hemL cells', 'hemL plasmid', 'glutamate', 'wild-type', 'hemL cells', 'gamma,delta-dioxovalerate aminotransferase activity', 'hemL gene', 'S. typhimurium', 'hemL gene', 'open reading frame', '45.3-kDa polypeptide', 'hemL gene', 'hemA gene', 'S. typhimurium', 'glutamyl-tRNA reductase', 'hemA genes', 'hemL gene product', 'barley GSA aminotransferase', 'aminotransferases']}], 'authors': 'Baker Sharyn D; van Schaik Ron H N; Rivory Laurent P; Ten Tije Albert J; Dinh Kimberly; Graveland Wilfried J; Schenk Paul W; Charles Kellie A; Clarke Stephen J; Carducci Michael A; et al', 'DOI': '10.1152/ajpgi.00227.2006', 'journal': 'American Journal of Physiology ', 'title': 'Experimental dengue virus challenge of human subjects previously vaccinated with live attenuated tetravalent dengue vaccines'}, {'document': ['The properties of 22 isoleucine-valine auxotrophs induced in Escherichia coli K-12 by the transposable element, Tn5, were characterized on the basis of growth requirements, cross-feeding behavior, and enzyme activity.  Mutants defective in ilvA, ilvC, ilvD and ilvE were found.  Mutation in ilvE were not completely polar on ilvD and ilvA enzyme activities (that is, ilvE mutants possessed a low constitutive level of expression of the enzymes coded by ilvD and ilvA), while mutations in ilvD were completely polar on ilvA enzyme activity.  The data suggest that there is an internal promoter between the sites of Tn5 insertion in ilvE and ilvD.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enzyme activity'], 'process': ['Mutation in ilvE', 'enzyme activities', 'enzyme activity', 'Tn5 insertion'], 'material': ['isoleucine-valine auxotrophs', 'Escherichia coli K-12 by', 'transposable element', 'Tn5', 'ilvA', 'ilvC', 'ilvD', 'ilvE', 'ilvD', 'ilvA', 'ilvE', 'ilvD', 'ilvA', 'ilvD', 'ilvA', 'internal promoter', 'ilvE', 'ilvD.']}], 'authors': 'Oliver G; Gosset G; Sanchez-Pescador R; Lozoya E; Ku L M; Flores N; Becerril B; Valle F; Bolivar F', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Crystal structures of the Chromobacterium violaceumω-transaminase reveal major structural rearrangements upon binding of coenzyme PLP'}, {'document': ["Neural stem cells (NSCs) constitute an endogenous reservoir for neurons that could potentially be harnessed for regenerative therapies in disease contexts such as neurodegeneration.  However, in Alzheimer's disease (AD), NSCs lose plasticity and thus possible regenerative capacity.  We investigate how NSCs lose their plasticity in AD by using starPEG-heparin-based hydrogels to establish a reductionist 3D cell-instructive neuro-microenvironment that promotes the proliferative and neurogenic ability of primary and induced human NSCs.  We find that administration of AD-associated Amyloid-β42 causes classical neuropathology and hampers NSC plasticity by inducing kynurenic acid (KYNA) production.  Interleukin-4 restores NSC proliferative and neurogenic ability by suppressing the KYNA-producing enzyme Kynurenine aminotransferase (KAT2), which is upregulated in APP/PS1dE9 mouse model of AD and in postmortem human AD brains.  Thus, our culture system enables a reductionist investigation of regulation of human NSC plasticity for the identification of potential therapeutic targets for intervention in AD."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['reductionist investigation of regulation of human NSC plasticity', 'identification of potential therapeutic targets for intervention'], 'process': ['regenerative therapies', "Alzheimer's disease", 'AD', 'promotes the proliferative and neurogenic ability', 'kynurenic acid', 'restores NSC proliferative and neurogenic ability', 'suppressing the KYNA-producing enzyme', 'KAT2'], 'material': ['Neural stem cells', 'NSCs', 'NSCs', 'NSCs', 'starPEG-heparin-based hydrogels', 'reductionist 3D cell-instructive neuro-microenvironment', 'primary and induced human NSCs', 'AD-associated Amyloid-β42', 'NSC', 'KYNA', 'Interleukin-4', 'APP/PS1dE9 mouse model', 'postmortem human AD brains', 'culture system']}], 'authors': 'Natarajan, G. M.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research ', 'title': 'Liver I/R injury is improved by the arginase inhibitor, Nω-hydroxy-nor-L-arginine (nor-NOHA)'}, {'document': ['Ammonia-lyases and aminomutases are mechanistically and structurally diverse enzymes which catalyze the deamination and/or isomerization of amino acids in nature by cleaving or shifting a C-N bond.  Of the many protein families in which these enzyme activities are found, only a subset have been employed in the synthesis of optically pure fine chemicals or in medical applications.  This review covers the natural diversity of these enzymes, highlighting particular enzyme classes that are used within industrial and medical biotechnology.  These highlights detail the discovery and mechanistic investigations of these commercially relevant enzymes, along with comparisons of their various applications as stand-alone catalysts, components of artificial biosynthetic pathways and biocatalytic or chemoenzymatic cascades, and therapeutic tools for the potential treatment of various pathologies.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['synthesis of optically pure fine chemicals', 'medical applications', 'industrial and medical biotechnology', 'discovery and mechanistic investigations', 'potential treatment of various pathologies'], 'process': ['deamination and/or isomerization of amino acids in nature', 'cleaving or shifting a C-N bond'], 'material': ['Ammonia-lyases', 'aminomutases', 'enzymes', 'commercially relevant enzymes', 'stand-alone catalysts', 'components of artificial biosynthetic pathways', 'biocatalytic or chemoenzymatic cascades', 'therapeutic tools']}], 'authors': 'Marshall V D; Sokatch J R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Gene ', 'title': 'Functional analysis of all aminotransferase proteins inferred from the genome sequence of Corynebacterium glutamicum'}, {'document': ['The nonprotein amino acid pipecolic acid (Pip) regulates plant systemic acquired resistance and basal immunity to bacterial pathogen infection.  In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), the lysine (Lys) aminotransferase AGD2-LIKE DEFENSE RESPONSE PROTEIN1 (ALD1) mediates the pathogen-induced accumulation of Pip in inoculated and distal leaf tissue.  Here, we show that ALD1 transfers the α-amino group of l-Lys to acceptor oxoacids.  Combined mass spectrometric and infrared spectroscopic analyses of in vitro assays and plant extracts indicate that the final product of the ALD1-catalyzed reaction is enaminic 2,3-dehydropipecolic acid (DP), whose formation involves consecutive transamination, cyclization, and isomerization steps.  Besides l-Lys, recombinant ALD1 transaminates l-methionine, l-leucine, diaminopimelate, and several other amino acids to generate oxoacids or derived products in vitro.  However, detailed in planta analyses suggest that the biosynthesis of 2,3-DP from l-Lys is the major in vivo function of ALD1.  Since ald1 mutant plants are able to convert exogenous 2,3-DP into Pip, their Pip deficiency relies on the inability to form the 2,3-DP intermediate.  The Arabidopsis reductase ornithine cyclodeaminase/μ-crystallin, alias SYSTEMIC ACQUIRED RESISTANCE-DEFICIENT4 (SARD4), converts ALD1-generated 2,3-DP into Pip in vitro.  SARD4 significantly contributes to the production of Pip in pathogen-inoculated leaves but is not the exclusive reducing enzyme involved in Pip biosynthesis.  Functional SARD4 is required for proper basal immunity to the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae Although SARD4 knockout plants show greatly reduced accumulation of Pip in leaves distal to P. syringae inoculation, they display a considerable systemic acquired resistance response.  This suggests a triggering function of locally accumulating Pip for systemic resistance induction.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['regulates plant systemic acquired resistance', 'basal immunity to bacterial pathogen infection'], 'process': ['AGD2-LIKE DEFENSE RESPONSE PROTEIN1', 'pathogen-induced accumulation', 'transfers the α-amino group of l-Lys to acceptor oxoacids', 'mass spectrometric and infrared spectroscopic analyses', 'in vitro assays', 'ALD1-catalyzed reaction', 'consecutive transamination', 'cyclization', 'isomerization', 'detailed in planta analyses', 'biosynthesis of 2,3-DP', 'convert exogenous 2,3-DP', 'Pip deficiency', 'form the 2,3-DP intermediate', 'Arabidopsis reductase', 'ornithine cyclodeaminase/μ-crystallin', 'SYSTEMIC ACQUIRED RESISTANCE-DEFICIENT4', 'SARD4', 'production of', 'Pip biosynthesis', 'P. syringae inoculation', 'systemic acquired resistance response', 'triggering function', 'systemic resistance induction'], 'material': ['nonprotein amino acid', 'pipecolic', 'Pip', 'Arabidopsis', 'lysine (Lys)', 'ALD1', 'Pip', 'leaf tissue', 'ALD1', 'plant extracts', 'enaminic', '2,3-dehydropipecolic', 'DP', 'l-Lys', 'recombinant ALD1', 'l-methionine', 'l-leucine', 'diaminopimelate', 'l-Lys', 'ALD1', 'ald1', 'Pip', 'ALD1-generated 2,3-DP', 'Pip', 'SARD4', 'Pip', 'reducing enzyme', 'SARD4', 'bacterial pathogen', 'Pseudomonas syringae', 'SARD4', 'Pip', 'locally accumulating Pip']}], 'authors': 'Woodward D J; Hoffer B J; Lapham L W', 'DOI': '10.1016/0048-3575(85)90076-8', 'journal': 'Pesticide Biochemistry and Physiology ', 'title': 'Factors affecting cytochrome P-450 3A activity in cancer patients'}, {'document': ['Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is an immune response induced in the distal parts of plants following defense activation in local tissue.  Pipecolic acid (Pip) accumulation orchestrates SAR and local resistance responses.  Here, we report the identification and characterization of SAR-DEFICIENT4 (SARD4), which encodes a critical enzyme for Pip biosynthesis in Arabidopsis thaliana Loss of function of SARD4 leads to reduced Pip levels and accumulation of a Pip precursor, Δ(1)-piperideine-2-carboxylic acid (P2C).  In Escherichia coli, expression of the aminotransferase ALD1 leads to production of P2C and addition of SARD4 results in Pip production, suggesting that a Pip biosynthesis pathway can be reconstituted in bacteria by coexpression of ALD1 and SARD4.  In vitro experiments showed that ALD1 can use l-lysine as a substrate to produce P2C and P2C is converted to Pip by SARD4.  Analysis of sard4 mutant plants showed that SARD4 is required for SAR as well as enhanced pathogen resistance conditioned by overexpression of the SAR regulator FLAVIN-DEPENDENT MONOOXYGENASE1.  Compared with the wild type, pathogen-induced Pip accumulation is only modestly reduced in the local tissue of sard4 mutant plants, but it is below detection in distal leaves, suggesting that Pip is synthesized in systemic tissue by SARD4-mediated reduction of P2C and biosynthesis of Pip in systemic tissue contributes to SAR establishment.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['identification and characterization of', 'enhanced pathogen resistance', 'SAR establishment'], 'process': ['Systemic acquired resistance', 'SAR', 'immune response', 'defense activation', 'accumulation orchestrates', 'SAR', 'local resistance responses', 'SAR-DEFICIENT4', 'SARD4', 'Pip biosynthesis', 'expression of the aminotransferase ALD1', 'production of P2C', 'production,', 'Pip biosynthesis pathway', 'In vitro experiments', 'SAR', 'overexpression of the', 'pathogen-induced Pip accumulation', 'SARD4-mediated reduction of P2C', 'biosynthesis of Pip'], 'material': ['Pipecolic acid', 'Pip', 'SARD4', 'Pip', 'Pip precursor', 'Δ(1)-piperideine-2-carboxylic acid', 'P2C', 'SARD4', 'Pip', 'ALD1', 'SARD4', 'ALD1', 'l-lysine', 'P2C', 'Pip', 'SARD4', 'sard4 mutant plants', 'SARD4', 'SAR regulator FLAVIN-DEPENDENT MONOOXYGENASE1', 'local tissue', 'sard4 mutant plants', 'Pip', 'systemic tissue', 'systemic tissue']}], 'authors': 'Pavlidis Ioannis V; Weiss Martin S; Genz Maika; Bornscheuer Uwe T; Pavlidis Ioannis V; Spurr Paul; Hanlon Steven P; Wirz Beat; Iding Hans', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Determination of the nucleotide sequence for the glutamate synthase structural genes of Escherichia coli K-12'}, {'document': ['The cellular distribution of transporters and enzymes related to glutamate metabolism led to the concept of the glutamate-glutamine cycle.  Glutamate is released as a neurotransmitter and taken up primarily by astrocytes ensheathing the synapses.  The glutamate carbon skeleton is transferred back to the presynaptic neurons as the nonexcitatory amino acid glutamine.  The cycle was initially thought to function with a 1:1 ratio between glutamate released and glutamine taken up by neurons.  However, studies of glutamate metabolism in astrocytes have shown that a considerable proportion of glutamate undergoes oxidative degradation; thus, quantitative formation of glutamine from the glutamate taken up is not possible.  Oxidation of glutamate is initiated by transamination catalyzed by an aminotransferase, or oxidative deamination catalyzed by glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH).  We discuss methods available to elucidate the enzymes that mediate this conversion.  Methods include pharmacological tools such as the transaminase inhibitor aminooxyacetic acid, studies using GDH knockout mice, and siRNA-mediated knockdown of GDH in astrocytes.  Studies in brain slices incubated with [(15) N]glutamate demonstrated activity of GDH in astrocytes in situ.  These results, in conjunction with reports in the literature, support the conclusion that GDH is active in astrocytes both in culture and in vivo and that this enzyme plays a significant role in glutamate oxidation.  Oxidative metabolism of glutamate, primarily mediated by GDH, but also by transamination by aspartate aminotransferase, provides considerably more energy than is required to maintain the activity of the high-affinity glutamate transporters needed for efficient removal of glutamate from the synaptic cleft. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['cellular distribution of', 'quantitative formation', 'studies using'], 'process': ['glutamate metabolism', 'glutamate-glutamine cycle', 'glutamate metabolism', 'oxidative degradation', 'Oxidation', 'transamination', 'oxidative deamination', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'siRNA-mediated knockdown', 'glutamate oxidation', 'Oxidative metabolism', 'transamination', 'removal of glutamate from the synaptic cleft'], 'material': ['transporters', 'Glutamate', 'astrocytes', 'glutamate carbon skeleton', 'presynaptic neurons', 'nonexcitatory amino acid', 'glutamine', 'glutamate', 'glutamine', 'astrocytes', 'glutamate', 'glutamine', 'glutamate', 'glutamate', 'aminotransferase', 'GDH', 'pharmacological tools', 'transaminase inhibitor aminooxyacetic', 'GDH', 'GDH', 'brain slices', '[(15) N]glutamate demonstrated activity', 'GDH', 'astrocytes', 'GDH', 'astrocytes', 'glutamate', 'GDH', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'high-affinity glutamate transporters']}], 'authors': 'Neto, Watson; Schurmann, Martin; Panella, Lavinia; Vogel, Andreas; Woodley, John M.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Experimental neurology ', 'title': 'Induction of branchial enzymes in snake head (Channa striatus) by oxydemeton-methyl'}, {'document': ['(S)-Strictosidine (I) represents the first key intermediate in the biosynthesis of several pharmaceutically relevant monoterpenoid indole alkaloids.  Optically pure C3-methyl-substituted strictosidine derivs. were prepd. by setting up the two stereogenic centers at the β-carboline core via two enzymic steps catalyzed by the enzymes transaminase and strictosidine synthase in a one-pot cascade fashion.  The two enzymic steps were performed simultaneously as well as in a stepwise fashion.  The amination of the prochiral ketones II (R1 = R2 = R3 = H; R1 = OH, Me, R2 = R3 = H; R1 = R3 = H, R2 = OMe; R1 = R2 = H, R3 = Me) led to optically pure tryptamines with up to >98% enantiomeric excess.  Depending on the enzyme used, the (S)- and (R)-enantiomers were prepd. in most cases.  Selected amines were then condensed with secologanin in a Pictet-Spengler reaction catalyzed by strictosidine synthase leading to diastereomerically pure products (>98% diastereomeric excess).'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['setting up the two stereogenic centers at the β-carboline core', 'enzymic steps', 'strictosidine synthase', 'one-pot cascade fashion', 'amination', 'R1 = R3 = H', 'R1', 'R2', '=', 'Pictet-Spengler reaction'], 'material': ['(S)-Strictosidine', 'monoterpenoid indole alkaloids', 'Optically pure C3-methyl-substituted strictosidine derivs', 'transaminase', 'prochiral ketones', 'R1 = R2 = R3 = H', 'R1 = OH', 'Me', 'OMe', 'Me', 'optically pure tryptamines', 'Selected amines', 'secologanin', 'strictosidine synthase']}], 'authors': 'Stalnecker Clint A; Li Yunxing; Ramachandran Sekar; Erickson Jon W; Ulrich Scott M; McBrayer Mary Kate; DeBerardinis Ralph J; Cerione Richard A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Nature chemistry ', 'title': 'Regulation of valine catabolism in Pseudomonas putida'}, {'document': ['Chiral amino alcs. are structural motifs present in sphingolipids, antibiotics, and antiviral glycosidase inhibitors.  Their chem. synthesis presents several challenges in establishing at least two chiral centers.  Here a de novo metabolic pathway using a transketolase enzyme coupled with a transaminase enzyme has been assembled.  To synthesize this motif one of the strategies to obtain high conversions from the transaminase/transketolase cascade is the use of hydroxypyruvate (HPA) as a two-carbon donor for the transketolase reaction; although com. available it is relatively expensive limiting application of the pathway on an industrial scale.  Alternately, HPA can be synthesized but this introduces a further synthetic step.  In this study two different biocatalytic strategies were developed for the synthesis of (2S,3R)-2-amino-1,3,4-butanetriol (ABT) without adding HPA into the reaction.  Firstly, a sequential cascade of three enzymic steps (two transaminases and one transketolase) for the synthesis of ABT from serine, pyruvate and glycolaldehyde as substrates.  Secondly, a two-step recycling cascade where serine is used as donor to aminate erythrulose (catalyzed by a transketolase) for the simultaneous synthesis of ABT and HPA.  In order to test the novel pathways, three new transaminases are described, two ω-transaminases able to accept a broad range of amine acceptors with serine as amine donor; and an α-transaminase, which showed high affinity towards serine (KM: 18 mM) using pyruvate as amine acceptor.  After implementation of the above enzymes in the biocatalytic pathways proposed in this paper, the two-step recycling pathway was found to be the most promising for its integration with E. coli metab.  It was more efficient (10-fold higher conversion), more sustainable and cost-effective (use of low cost natural substrates and only two enzymes), and the reaction could be performed in a one-pot system.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['establishing at least two chiral centers', 'synthesize this motif', 'obtain high conversions from the', 'novel pathways'], 'process': ['chem. synthesis', 'de novo metabolic pathway', 'transketolase reaction', 'synthetic step', 'biocatalytic strategies', 'sequential cascade of three enzymic steps', 'synthesis of ABT', 'two-step recycling cascade', 'accept a broad range of amine acceptors', 'biocatalytic pathways', 'two-step recycling pathway', 'conversion', 'one-pot system'], 'material': ['Chiral amino alcs', 'structural motifs', 'sphingolipids', 'antibiotics', 'antiviral glycosidase inhibitors', 'transketolase enzyme', 'transaminase enzyme', 'hydroxypyruvate', 'HPA', 'two-carbon donor', 'HPA', '(2S,3R)-2-amino-1,3,4-butanetriol', 'ABT', 'HPA', 'transaminases', 'transketolase', 'serine', 'pyruvate', 'glycolaldehyde', 'serine', 'aminate erythrulose', 'transketolase', 'ABT', 'HPA', 'ω-transaminases', 'serine', 'amine donor', 'α-transaminase', 'serine', 'pyruvate', 'enzymes', 'E. coli metab', 'natural substrates', 'enzymes']}], 'authors': 'Li, Guangyue; Ren, Jie; Yao, Peiyuan; Duan, Yitao; Zhang, Hailing; Wu, Qiaqing; Feng, Jinhui; Lau, Peter C. K.; Zhu, Dunming', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.molcatb.2015.04.005', 'journal': 'Journal of Molecular Catalysis B: Enzymatic ', 'title': 'Postnatal development of electrical and enzyme histochemical activity in Purkinje cells'}, {'document': ["Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency is an autosomal recessive enzyme deficiency resulting in lysosomal accumulation of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides.  LAL-CL04, an ongoing extension study, investigates the long-term effects of sebelipase alfa, a recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase.Sebelipase alfa (1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg) was infused every-other-week to eligible subjects.  Safety and tolerability assessments, including liver function, lipid profiles and liver vol. assessment, were carried out at regular intervals.216 infusions were administered to eight adult subjects through week 52 during LAL-CL04.  At week 52, mean alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels were normal with mean change from baseline of -58% and -40%.  Mean changes for low-d. lipoprotein, total cholesterol, triglyceride and high-d. lipoprotein were -60%, -39%, -36%, and +29%, resp.  Mean liver vol. by magnetic resonance imaging and hepatic proton d. fat fraction decreased (12% and 55%, resp.).  Adverse events were mainly mild and unrelated to sebelipase alfa.  Infusion-related reactions were uncommon: three events of moderate severity were reported in two subjects; one patient's event was suggestive of a hypersensitivity-like reaction, but addnl. testing did not confirm this, and the subject has successfully re-started sebelipase alfa.  Of samples tested to date, no anti-drug antibodies have been detected.Long-term dosing with sebelipase alfa in lysosomal acid lipase-deficient patients is well tolerated and produces sustained redns. in transaminases, improvements in serum lipid profile and redn. in the hepatic fat fraction.  A randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial in children and adults is underway (ARISE: NCT01757184)."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Safety and tolerability assessments', 'liver function', 'liver vol. assessment', 'randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial'], 'process': ['Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency', 'lysosomal accumulation of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides', 'magnetic resonance imaging', 'hepatic proton d. fat fraction', 'Infusion-related reactions', 'hypersensitivity-like reaction', 'Long-term dosing', 'improvements in serum lipid profile', 'redn'], 'material': ['autosomal recessive enzyme', 'LAL-CL04', 'sebelipase alfa', 'recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase', 'Sebelipase alfa', 'LAL-CL04', 'alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels', 'low-d. lipoprotein', 'total cholesterol', 'sebelipase', 'addnl', 'sebelipase alfa', 'anti-drug antibodies', 'sebelipase alfa', 'lysosomal acid lipase-deficient patients', 'hepatic fat fraction']}], 'authors': 'Kumari Archana; Kakkar Poonam', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Identification of (S)-selective transaminases for the asymmetric synthesis of bulky chiral amines'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES:  Primary hyperoxaluria type I (PH I) is caused by deficiency of the liver-specific enzyme alanine-glyoxylate:aminotransferase (AGT).  Many mutations are known to perturb AGT protein folding.  Vitamin B6 (B6) is the only specific drug available for treatment.  Although B6 has been used for >40 years, controlled data on B6 efficacy are lacking.  Therefore, this study investigated the absolute and relative change of urinary oxalate (Uox) excretion under increasing dosages of B6, the first prospective trial to do so.  DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS:  B6 response was studied in 12 patients (7 male patients) with genetically confirmed PH I (3 Gly170Arg homozygous, 5 compound Gly170Arg and/or Phe152Ile heterozygous, and 4 negative for Gly170Arg and/or Phe152Ile mutations) and noncompromised renal function.  Efficacy was defined as a 30% relative reduction in Uox excretion.  B6 was administered orally starting at 5 mg/kg body weight per day and given in increments of 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks, up to a final dosage of 20 mg/kg per day at week 24.  Uox and serum B6 levels were measured every 6 weeks.  RESULTS:  Mean relative Uox reduction was 25.5%.  Uox declined from 2.09±0.55 (mean±SD) at baseline to 1.52±0.60 mmol/1.73 m(2) per day (P=0.01) at week 24.  Serum B6 levels increased from 22.5±8.7 to 1217±776 ng/ml (P<0.001).  Six patients showed a ≥30% relative reduction of Uox at week 24.  CONCLUSION:  This first prospective trial confirmed B6 efficacy in 50% of patients (three of three homozygous, one of five heterozygous, and two of four patients negative for the Gly170Arg and/or Phe152Ile mutations).  Interestingly, no complete biochemical remission was observed, even in the homozygous Gly170Arg study participants.  Future trials are necessary to learn more about genotype-related B6 response and B6 metabolism.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['PH', 'perturb AGT protein folding', 'first prospective trial to do so', 'B6 efficacy', 'learn more about genotype-related B6 response'], 'process': ['Primary hyperoxaluria', 'I', 'deficiency of the liver-specific enzyme', 'alanine-glyoxylate:aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'mutations', 'urinary oxalate', 'Uox', 'increasing dosages of B6', 'B6 response', 'Efficacy', 'B6 metabolism.'], 'material': ['Vitamin', 'B6', 'B6', 'B6', 'controlled data', 'genetically confirmed PH', 'noncompromised renal function', '30% relative reduction in', 'Uox', 'B6', 'Uox', 'serum B6', 'Uox', 'Uox', 'Serum B6', 'Uox', 'homozygous Gly170Arg study participants', 'Future trials']}], 'authors': 'Yousef, Mokhtar I.; Kamel, Kamel I.; Hassan, Mervat S.; El-Morsy, Ahmed M. A.', 'DOI': '10.1021/cs401065n', 'journal': 'ACS Catalysis ', 'title': 'Immobilisation of ω-transaminase for industrial application: Screening and characterisation of commercial ready to use enzyme carriers'}, {'document': ['Angiotensin (Ang)-(1-7) has been described as an important tool on treating and preventing metabolic disorders.  In this study, we aimed to evaluate the effect of an oral formulation of Ang-(1-7) included in hydroxypropylβ-cyclodextrin (HPβCD/Ang-[1-7]) on hepatic function, steatosis, and on liver inflammatory markers expression in mice treated with a high-fat diet.  Male FVB/N mice were divided into 4 groups and fed for 60 days, with each group receiving 1 of the following diets: standard diet+HPβCD, standard diet+Ang-(1-7)/HPβCD, high-fat diet+HPβCD, or high-fat diet+Ang-[1-7]/HPβCD.  Body weight, food intake, and blood parameters, such as total cholesterol, triglyceride, alaninetransaminases, and aspartate transaminases, were evaluated.  Immunohistochemical analyses were performed for inflammatory markers tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6.  Expression of angiotensin converting enzyme, angiotensin-converting enzyme-2, interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6, transforming growth factor-β, acetyl-CoA carboxylase, carbohydrate-responsive element-binding protein, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, and sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c was evaluated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.  The major findings of our study included reduced liver fat mass and weight, decreased plasma total cholesterol, triglyceride, and alaninetransaminase enzyme levels in the oral Ang-(1-7)-treated groups compared with the control groups.  These results were accompanied by a significant reduction in tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 mRNA expression in the liver.  Analyses of liver adipogenesis-related genes by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that acetyl-CoA carboxylase, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, and sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c mRNA expression were significantly suppressed.  In conclusion, we observed that treatment with Ang-(1-7) improved metabolism and decreased proinflammatory profile and fat deposition in liver of mice.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Angiotensin (Ang)-(1-7', 'treating and preventing metabolic disorders', 'decreased proinflammatory profile'], 'process': ['hepatic function', 'steatosis', 'Immunohistochemical analyses', 'carbohydrate-responsive element-binding protein', 'peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ', 'sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c', 'quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction', 'reduced liver fat mass and weight', 'tumor necrosis factor-α', 'quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction', 'peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor', 'sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c', 'mRNA expression', 'treatment with', 'fat deposition in liver'], 'material': ['oral formulation', 'Ang-(1-7', 'HPβCD', 'liver inflammatory markers', 'high-fat diet', 'Male FVB/N mice', 'standard diet+HPβCD', 'standard diet+Ang-(1', 'high-fat diet+HPβCD', 'high-fat diet+Ang-[1', 'food intake', 'blood parameters', 'total cholesterol', 'triglyceride', 'inflammatory markers', 'tumor necrosis factor-α', 'angiotensin converting', 'angiotensin-converting enzyme-2', 'tumor', 'transforming', 'acetyl-CoA carboxylase', 'oral Ang-(1-7)-treated groups', 'liver adipogenesis-related genes', 'acetyl-CoA carboxylase']}], 'authors': 'Olschewski Peter; Gass Paul; Ariyakhagorn Veeravorn; Jasse Kerstin; Hunold Gerhard; Menzel Martin; Schoning Wenzel; Schmitz Volker; Neuhaus Peter; Puhl Gero', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Life sciences ', 'title': 'Mechanism by which a recently discovered allosteric inhibitor blocks glutamine metabolism in transformed cells'}, {'document': ['Chiral amines in enantiopure forms are important chemical building blocks, which are most well recognized in the pharmaceutical industries for imparting desirable biological activity to chemical entities.  A number of synthetic strategies to produce chiral amines via biocatalytic as well as chemical transformation have been developed.  Recently, ω-transaminase (ω-TA) has attracted growing attention as a promising catalyst which provides an environment-friendly access to production of chiral amines with exquisite stereoselectivity and excellent catalytic turnover.  To obtain enantiopure amines using ω-TAs, either kinetic resolution of racemic amines or asymmetric amination of achiral ketones is employed.  The latter is usually preferred because of twofold higher yield and no requirement of conversion of a ketone product back to racemic amine.  However, the choice of a production process depends on several factors such as reaction equilibrium, substrate reactivity, enzyme inhibition, and commercial availability of substrates.  This review summarizes the biochemical features of ω-TA, including reaction chemistry, substrate specificity, and active site structure, and then introduces recent advances in expanding the scope of ω-TA reaction by protein engineering and public database searching.  We also address crucial factors to be considered for the development of efficient ω-TA processes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['produce chiral amines', 'production of chiral amines', 'reaction chemistry', 'substrate specificity', 'active site structure'], 'process': ['synthetic strategies', 'chemical transformation', 'kinetic resolution', 'asymmetric amination', 'conversion', 'production process', 'reaction equilibrium', 'substrate reactivity', 'enzyme inhibition', 'ω-TA reaction', 'protein engineering', 'public database searching', 'ω-TA processes'], 'material': ['Chiral amines', 'chemical building blocks', 'ω-transaminase', 'ω-TA', 'catalyst', 'enantiopure amines', 'ω-TAs', 'racemic amines', 'achiral ketones', 'ketone product', 'racemic amine', 'substrates', 'ω-TA']}], 'authors': 'Heinl Stefan; Hartinger Doris; Thamhesl Michaela; Vekiru Elisavet; Krska Rudolf; Schatzmayr Gerd; Moll Wulf-Dieter; Grabherr Reingard', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.fct.2010.04.018', 'journal': 'Food and Chemical Toxicology ', 'title': 'Deracemization of 2-Methyl-1,2,3,4-Tetrahydroquinoline Using Mutant Cyclohexylamine Oxidase Obtained by Iterative Saturation Mutagenesis'}, {'document': ['The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of fenugreek galactomannan on intestinal glucose uptake in surviving diabetic rats.  It explored their potential action with respect to lowering maltase, lactase, and sucrase activities in the small intestine of galactomannan-treated diabetic group compared to the diabetic control group.  The findings indicate that the increase of blood glucose levels was significantly suppressed in the galactomannan-treated group than those in the diabetic rats.  Moreover, the galactomannan isolated from fenugreek exhibited a prominent selective inhibitory effect against intestinal lipase activity.  It was found to significantly delay the absorption of LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides and the increase in HDL-cholesterol.  In addn., fenugreek galactomannan efficiently protect the hepatic function obsd. by the considerable decrease of aspartate and alanine transaminases (AST and ALT) and lactate deshydrogenase (LDH) contents in the serum of diabetic rats.  The beneficial effects of fenugreek galactomannan were also evidenced by their capacity to inhibit diabetes-induced kidney injury through lowering the urea and creatinine content in plasma.  Overall, the conclusion of the present study indicate that fenugreek galactomannan displays a no. of promising properties and attributes for future applications as therapeutic agents in biotechnol. and bioprocess-based technologies, particularly those interested in the development of anti-diabetic and hypolipidemic drugs.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['investigate the effect of', 'intestinal glucose uptake', 'potential action', 'lowering maltase,', 'development of anti-diabetic and hypolipidemic drugs'], 'process': ['increase of blood glucose levels', 'intestinal lipase activity', 'protect the hepatic function', 'AST', 'lactate deshydrogenase', 'inhibit diabetes-induced kidney injury', 'lowering the urea and creatinine content in plasma'], 'material': ['fenugreek galactomannan', 'lactase', 'sucrase', 'galactomannan-treated diabetic group', 'diabetic control group', 'galactomannan-treated group', 'diabetic rats', 'galactomannan', 'fenugreek', 'LDL-cholesterol', 'HDL', 'addn', 'fenugreek galactomannan', 'aspartate and alanine transaminases', 'LDH', 'fenugreek galactomannan', 'fenugreek galactomannan', 'therapeutic agents']}], 'authors': 'Islam Mohammad Mainul; Nautiyal Manisha; Wynn R Max; Mobley James A; Chuang David T; Hutson Susan M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Cryobiology ', 'title': 'Lupeol prevents acetaminophen-induced in vivo hepatotoxicity by altering the Bax/Bcl-2 and oxidative stress-mediated mitochondrial signaling cascade'}, {'document': ['Endotoxemia participates in the pathogenesis of many liver injuries.  Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was shown to inactivate hepatic methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT), the enzyme responsible for S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe) biosynthesis.  SAMe treatment was shown to prevent the LPS-induced increase in tumor necrosis factor-α, which may be one of its beneficial effects.  SAMe is also an important precursor of glutathione (GSH) and GSH was shown to ameliorate LPS-induced hepatotoxicity.  The aims of this work were to examine changes in SAMe and GSH homeostasis during endotoxemia and the effect of SAMe.  Mice received SAMe or vehicle pretreatment followed by LPS and were killed up to18 h afterward.  Unexpectedly, we found hepatic SAMe level increased 67% following LPS treatment while S-adenosylhomocysteine level fell by 26%, suggesting an increase in SAMe biosynthesis and/or block in transmethylation.  The mRNA and protein levels of MAT1A and MAT2A were increased following LPS.  However, despite increased MAT1A expression, MAT activity remained inhibited 18 h after LPS.  The major methyltransferase that catabolizes hepatic SAMe is glycine N-methyltransferase, whose expression fell by 65% following LPS.  Hepatic GSH level fell more than 50% following LPS, coinciding with a comparable fall in the mRNA and protein levels of glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) catalytic (GCLC) and modifier subunits (GCLM).  SAMe pretreatment prevented the fall in GCLC and attenuated the fall in GCLM expression and GSH level.  SAMe pretreatment prevented the LPS-induced increase in plasma alanine transaminases levels but not the LPS-induced increase in hepatic mRNA levels of proinflammatory cytokines.  It further enhanced LPS-induced increase in interleukin-10 mRNA level.  Taken together, the hepatic response to LPS is to upregulate MAT expression and inhibit SAMe utilization.  GSH is markedly depleted largely due to lower expression of GCL.  Interestingly, SAMe treatment prevented the fall in GCL and helped to preserve the GSH store and prevent liver injury.  Lab. Investigation (2008) 88, 1121-1129; doi:10.1038/labinvest.2008.69; published online 11 August 2008.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['changes in SAMe and GSH homeostasis', 'prevent liver injury', 'Lab. Investigation'], 'process': ['Endotoxemia', 'liver injuries', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'biosynthesis.', 'SAMe treatment', 'tumor necrosis factor', 'SAMe', 'LPS', 'LPS treatment', 'increase in', 'SAMe biosynthesis', 'LPS', 'LPS', 'glycine N-methyltransferase', 'LPS', 'LPS', 'SAMe pretreatment', 'fall', 'SAMe pretreatment', 'LPS-induced increase', 'LPS-induced increase in hepatic mRNA levels', 'LPS-induced increase', 'hepatic response', 'upregulate MAT expression', 'inhibit SAMe utilization', 'SAMe treatment', 'preserve the GSH store'], 'material': ['Lipopolysaccharide', 'LPS', 'MAT', 'SAMe', 'LPS', 'SAMe', 'glutathione', 'GSH', 'GSH', 'SAMe', 'SAMe', 'S-adenosylhomocysteine', 'MAT1A', 'MAT2A', 'MAT1A', 'MAT', 'major methyltransferase', 'Hepatic GSH', 'glutamate-cysteine ligase', 'GCL', 'GCLC', 'modifier subunits', 'GCLM', 'GCLC', 'GCLM', 'GSH', 'plasma alanine transaminases', 'proinflammatory cytokines', 'LPS', 'GSH', 'GCL', 'GCL']}], 'authors': 'Kurihara Shin; Oda Shinpei; Tsuboi Yuichi; Kim Hyeon Guk; Oshida Mayu; Kumagai Hidehiko; Suzuki Hideyuki', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of biotechnology ', 'title': 'Protective role of propolis against reproductive toxicity of triphenyltin in male rabbits'}, {'document': ['Yessotoxin (YTX), an algal toxin contaminating edible shellfish, was previously shown to induce ultrastructural changes in some cardiac muscle cells of mice after acute (1 and 2 mg/kg) or daily repeated oral exposure (1 and 2 mg/kg/day, for 7 days).  Therefore, the temporal evolution of the ultrastructural myocardial alterations and the development of other signs of toxicity induced by a repeated daily oral administration of YTX (1 mg/kg/day, for 7 days) to mice were evaluated within 3 mo after the treatment.  Symptoms, food consumption, body wt., gross pathol. and histopathol. of the main organs and tissues were obsd., and plasma levels of transaminases, lactate dehydrogenase, creatinine and creatinine phosphokinase were measured.  Heart, liver, kidneys and cerebellum were also analyzed by transmission electron microscopy.  In addn., the blood concn. of YTX was detd. by a direct enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 24 h after the last toxin administration.  No mortality or other treatment-related changes, including histol. or hematoclin. parameters, were recorded in mice administered with YTX.  Similarly, electron microscopy did not reveal any ultrastructural alteration in the liver, kidneys, and cerebellum assocd. with YTX treatment.  In contrast, changes in cardiac muscle cells near to the capillaries (clusters of rounded mitochondria and disorganization of myofibrils) were obsd. 24 h after the treatment.  These changes were also noted 30 days after the toxin administration, while after 90 days no differences in cardiac muscle cells between control and YTX-treated mice were obsd., which indicated a recovery of the ultrastructural alterations induced by the toxin.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['temporal evolution of the ultrastructural myocardial alterations', 'gross pathol. and histopathol. of the main organs and tissues', 'histol'], 'process': ['induce ultrastructural changes', 'acute (1 and 2 mg/kg', 'food consumption', 'transmission electron microscopy', 'direct enzyme linked immunosorbent assay', 'ELISA', 'toxin administration', 'electron microscopy', 'ultrastructural alteration', 'toxin administration', 'ultrastructural alterations'], 'material': ['Yessotoxin', 'YTX', 'algal toxin', 'edible shellfish', 'cardiac muscle cells', 'YTX', 'body wt', 'plasma levels of transaminases', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'creatinine', 'Heart', 'blood concn', 'YTX', 'YTX', 'liver', 'YTX', 'cardiac muscle cells', 'capillaries', 'clusters of rounded mitochondria and disorganization of myofibrils', 'cardiac muscle cells', 'YTX-treated mice', 'toxin']}], 'authors': 'Kahrilas Peter J; Dent John; Lauritsen Karsten; Malfertheiner Peter; Denison Hans; Franzen Stefan; Hasselgren Goran', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'The influence of storage temperature during machine perfusion on preservation quality of marginal donor livers'}, {'document': ['Endotoxemia participates in the pathogenesis of many liver injuries.  Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was shown to inactivate hepatic methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT), the enzyme responsible for S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe) biosynthesis.  SAMe treatment was shown to prevent the LPS-induced increase in tumor necrosis factor-alpha, which may be one of its beneficial effects.  SAMe is also an important precursor of glutathione (GSH) and GSH was shown to ameliorate LPS-induced hepatotoxicity.  The aims of this work were to examine changes in SAMe and GSH homeostasis during endotoxemia and the effect of SAMe.  Mice received SAMe or vehicle pretreatment followed by LPS and were killed up to 18 h afterward.  Unexpectedly, we found hepatic SAMe level increased 67% following LPS treatment while S-adenosylhomocysteine level fell by 26%, suggesting an increase in SAMe biosynthesis and/or block in transmethylation.  The mRNA and protein levels of MAT1A and MAT2A were increased following LPS.  However, despite increased MAT1A expression, MAT activity remained inhibited 18 h after LPS.  The major methyltransferase that catabolizes hepatic SAMe is glycine N-methyltransferase, whose expression fell by 65% following LPS.  Hepatic GSH level fell more than 50% following LPS, coinciding with a comparable fall in the mRNA and protein levels of glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) catalytic (GCLC) and modifier subunits (GCLM).  SAMe pretreatment prevented the fall in GCLC and attenuated the fall in GCLM expression and GSH level.  SAMe pretreatment prevented the LPS-induced increase in plasma alanine transaminases levels but not the LPS-induced increase in hepatic mRNA levels of proinflammatory cytokines.  It further enhanced LPS-induced increase in interleukin-10 mRNA level.  Taken together, the hepatic response to LPS is to upregulate MAT expression and inhibit SAMe utilization.  GSH is markedly depleted largely due to lower expression of GCL.  Interestingly, SAMe treatment prevented the fall in GCL and helped to preserve the GSH store and prevent liver injury.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['changes in SAMe and GSH homeostasis', 'prevent liver injury'], 'process': ['Endotoxemia', 'liver injuries', 'S-adenosylmethionine', 'biosynthesis.', 'SAMe treatment', 'tumor necrosis factor', 'SAMe', 'LPS', 'LPS treatment', 'increase in', 'SAMe biosynthesis', 'LPS', 'LPS', 'glycine N-methyltransferase', 'LPS', 'LPS', 'SAMe pretreatment', 'fall in GCLM', 'SAMe pretreatment', 'LPS-induced increase', 'LPS-induced increase in hepatic mRNA levels', 'LPS-induced increase in interleukin-10 mRNA level', 'hepatic response', 'upregulate MAT expression', 'inhibit SAMe utilization', 'SAMe treatment', 'preserve the GSH store'], 'material': ['Lipopolysaccharide', 'LPS', 'MAT', 'SAMe', 'LPS', 'SAMe', 'glutathione', 'GSH', 'GSH', 'SAMe', 'SAMe', 'S-adenosylhomocysteine', 'MAT1A', 'MAT2A', 'MAT1A', 'MAT', 'major methyltransferase', 'Hepatic GSH', 'glutamate-cysteine ligase', 'GCL', 'GCLC', 'modifier subunits', 'GCLM', 'GCLC', 'GSH', 'plasma alanine transaminases', 'proinflammatory cytokines', 'LPS', 'GSH', 'GCL', 'GCL']}], 'authors': 'Pellicciari Roberto; Rizzo Rosa C; Costantino Gabriele; Marinozzi Maura; Amori Laura; Guidetti Paolo; Wu Hui-Qiu; Schwarcz Robert', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Degradation of fumonisin B1 by the consecutive action of two bacterial enzymes'}, {'document': ['When wounded or attacked by herbivores or pathogens, plants produce a blend of six-carbon alcohols, aldehydes and esters, known as C6-volatiles.  Undamaged plants, when exposed to C6-volatiles, respond by inducing defense-related genes and secondary metabolites, suggesting that C6-volatiles can act as signaling molecules regulating plant defense responses.  However, to date, the molecular mechanisms by which plants perceive and respond to these volatiles are unknown.  To elucidate such mechanisms, we decided to isolate Arabidopsis thaliana mutants in which responses to C6-volatiles were altered.  We observed that treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings with the C6-volatile E-2-hexenal inhibits root elongation.  Among C6-volatiles this response is specific to E-2-hexenal, and is not dependent on ethylene, jasmonic and salicylic acid.  Using this bioassay, we isolated 18 E-2-hexenal-response (her) mutants that showed sustained root growth after E-2-hexenal treatment.  Here, we focused on the molecular characterization of one of these mutants, her1.  Microarray and map-based cloning revealed that her1 encodes a gamma-amino butyric acid transaminase (GABA-TP), an enzyme that degrades GABA.  As a consequence of the mutation, her1 plants accumulate high GABA levels in all their organs.  Based on the observation that E-2-hexenal treatment induces GABA accumulation, and that high GABA levels confer resistance to E-2-hexenal, we propose a role for GABA in mediating E-2-hexenal responses.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['regulating plant defense responses', 'molecular mechanisms by which plants perceive and respond to these volatiles', 'molecular characterization of one of these mutants'], 'process': ['root elongation', 'her', 'sustained root growth', 'Microarray', 'map-based cloning', '-', 'TP', 'degrades GABA', 'mutation', 'high GABA'], 'material': ['blend of six-carbon alcohols', 'aldehydes', 'esters', 'C6-volatiles', 'Undamaged plants', 'C6-volatiles', 'defense-related genes', 'secondary metabolites', 'C6-volatiles', 'signaling molecules', 'Arabidopsis thaliana', 'C6-volatiles', 'Arabidopsis seedlings', 'C6-volatile', 'E-2-hexenal', 'C6-volatiles', 'E-2-hexenal', 'ethylene', 'jasmonic', 'salicylic', '18 E-2-hexenal', 'E-2-hexenal', 'her1', 'her1', 'gamma-amino butyric acid transaminase', 'GABA', 'her1 plants', 'GABA', 'E-2-hexenal', 'GABA', 'E-2-hexenal', 'GABA', 'E-2-hexenal']}], 'authors': 'Ayyub Muhammad; Khazindar Adel M; Lubbad Eman H; Barlas Shahid; Alfi Adnaan Y; Al-Ukayli Sawsan', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Clinical gastroenterology and hepatology : the official clinical practice journal of the American Gastroenterological Association ', 'title': 'Branched-chain amino acid metabolon: interaction of glutamate dehydrogenase with the mitochondrial branched-chain aminotransferase (BCATm)'}, {'document': ['Objective: To study the relationship of C677T and A1298C polymorphisms in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene to toxicity and efficacy of methotrexate (MTX) in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA).  Methods: Single nucleotide polymorphisms of the MTHFR gene were investigated by polymerase chain reaction and restriction enzyme anal. of DNA extd. from peripheral blood cells.  The fasting plasma homocysteine concn. was analyzed by enzyme immunoassay.  Clin. data of 58 patients with JIA treated with MTX were analyzed retrospectively.  Results: The 1298A/A genotype was present in 31 patients, 1298C/C in 4 patients, and 21 patients were heterozygous.  The 677C/C genotype was present in 29 patients, 677 T/T in 3 patients, and 26 patients were heterozygous.  In patients who presented the C allele of the A1298C polymorphism, improvement with respect to the no. of swollen joints, the no. of tender joints, and a decrease in erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels occurred more frequently than in 1298 A/A homozygous patients (p < 0.05 for ESR, p < 0.01 for CRP, chi-square test).  There was no relationship between the C677T polymorphism and the efficacy of MTX treatment.  Forty-two adverse events were noted in 26 patients; gastrointestinal symptoms were most common (n = 20), followed by elevated serum levels of transaminases (n = 19) and hair loss (n = 3).  There was no cytopenia.  Patients with the heterozygous genotype 677C/T exhibited adverse events more frequently than patients with the homozygous C/C genotype (65% vs 31%; p < 0.05, chi-square test).  The A1298C polymorphism, however, was not assocd. with occurrence of adverse events.  Plasma homocysteine was elevated in 6 patients with up to 16.9 mmol/l.  No assocn. was found to a specific genotype or to adverse events.  Conclusions: These preliminary data suggest an assocn. of the MTHFR 677C/C polymorphism to a higher tolerability of MTX, and of the 1298A/A to lower clin. efficacy of MTX therapy in JIA.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['study the relationship of'], 'process': ['polymerase chain reaction', 'restriction enzyme anal', 'enzyme immunoassay', 'decrease in erythrocyte sedimentation rate', 'ESR', 'CRP', 'ESR', 'CRP', 'C677T polymorphism', 'MTX treatment', 'elevated serum levels of transaminases', 'A1298C polymorphism', 'assocn', 'MTX therapy'], 'material': ['MTHFR', 'methotrexate', 'MTX', 'juvenile idiopathic arthritis', 'JIA', 'Single nucleotide polymorphisms', 'MTHFR gene', 'peripheral blood cells', 'fasting plasma homocysteine concn', '58 patients with JIA', 'MTX', '1298A/A', '677C/C', '677 T/T', 'C allele', 'C-reactive protein', '1298 A/A', 'gastrointestinal symptoms', 'Patients with the heterozygous genotype', 'patients with the homozygous C/C', 'Plasma homocysteine', 'adverse events', 'MTX', '1298A/A', 'JIA']}], 'authors': 'Yousef M I; El-Demerdash F M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'ChemMedChem ', 'title': 'gamma-Glutamylputrescine synthetase in the putrescine utilization pathway of Escherichia coli K-12'}, {'document': ['In aging tissues the oxidative stress increases due to decreased activity of antioxidant enzymes and proteolysis increases due to decreased activity of aminotransferases, which can be modified by hormonal replacement therapy (HRT).  The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of HRT on the activities of an antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD) and aminotransferases like alanine aminotransferase (Ala-AT) and aspartate aminotransferase in different age groups (12, 18 and 24 months) of naturally menopausal rats.  The rats were given the subcutaneous injection of 17beta-estradiol, progesterone and combination of estradiol and progesterone for 1 month.  The activity of SOD, Ala-AT and Asp-AT was measured in the brain (cerebral hemisphere, CH), heart, liver, kidney and uterus.  The activity of SOD decreased with age in all the tissues taken particularly in liver.  After HRT the enzyme activities were increased as compared to age-matched controls in all the tissues of aging rats.  The activities of transaminases (Ala-AT and Asp-AT) showed a decrease with age in all the tissues and administration of estradiol and combination of estradiol and progesterone further decreased both the aminotransferases.  Our study elucidates that increased activity of SOD contributes in protection of cells from oxygen toxicity by catalyzing the dismutation of free radicals in tissues.  Furthermore, the HRT probably decreases gluconeogenesis and proteolysis by decreasing the activities of Ala-AT and Asp-AT in aging rat tissues.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['oxidative stress', 'hormonal replacement therapy', 'HRT', 'HRT', 'superoxide dismutase', 'alanine aminotransferase', 'administration of', 'increased activity', 'toxicity by', 'dismutation of free radicals', 'HRT', 'decreases gluconeogenesis and proteolysis'], 'material': ['aminotransferases', 'SOD', 'Ala', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'naturally menopausal rats', 'subcutaneous injection', '17beta-estradiol', 'progesterone', 'estradiol', 'progesterone', 'SOD', 'Ala-AT', 'Asp-AT', 'brain', 'cerebral hemisphere', 'CH', 'heart', 'liver', 'uterus', 'SOD', 'liver', 'age-matched controls', 'aging rats', 'Ala-AT', 'Asp', 'AT', 'estradiol', 'estradiol', 'progesterone', 'SOD', 'oxygen', 'Ala-AT', 'Asp', 'AT', 'aging rat tissues']}], 'authors': 'Rubenfire, Melvyn', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Ayub Medical College, Abbottabad : JAMC ', 'title': 'A randomized, comparative study of three doses of AZD0865 and esomeprazole for healing of reflux esophagitis'}, {'document': ["The kynurenine pathway has long been regarded as a valuable target for the treatment of several neurological disorders accompanied by unbalanced levels of metabolites along the catabolic cascade, kynurenic acid among them.  The irreversible transamination of kynurenine is the sole source of kynurenic acid, and it is catalyzed by different isoforms of the 5'-pyridoxal phosphate-dependent kynurenine aminotransferase (KAT).  The KAT-I isozyme has also been reported to possess beta-lyase activity toward several sulfur- and selenium-conjugated molecules, leading to the proposal of a role of the enzyme in carcinogenesis associated with environmental pollutants.  We solved the structure of human KAT-I in its 5'-pyridoxal phosphate and pyridoxamine phosphate forms and in complex with the competing substrate l-Phe.  The enzyme active site revealed a striking crown of aromatic residues decorating the ligand binding pocket, which we propose as a major molecular determinant for substrate recognition.  Ligand-induced conformational changes affecting Tyr(101) and the Trp(18)-bearing alpha-helix H1 appear to play a central role in catalysis.  Our data reveal a key structural role of Glu(27), providing a molecular basis for the reported loss of enzymatic activity displayed by the equivalent Glu --> Gly mutation in KAT-I of spontaneously hypertensive rats."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treatment of several neurological disorders', 'carcinogenesis associated with environmental pollutants', 'solved the structure of human KAT-I', 'substrate recognition', 'molecular basis for the reported loss of enzymatic activity'], 'process': ['unbalanced levels of metabolites along the catabolic cascade', 'irreversible transamination', 'KAT', 'beta-lyase activity', 'Ligand-induced conformational changes', 'catalysis'], 'material': ['kynurenine', 'kynurenic', 'acid', 'kynurenine', 'kynurenic acid', "5'-pyridoxal phosphate-dependent kynurenine", 'KAT-I isozyme', 'sulfur- and selenium-conjugated molecules', "5'-pyridoxal phosphate", 'pyridoxamine phosphate', 'competing substrate', 'l-Phe', 'aromatic residues', 'ligand binding pocket', 'Tyr(101', 'alpha-helix H1', 'Glu --> Gly', 'KAT', 'I', 'spontaneously hypertensive rats']}], 'authors': 'Ferret P J; Hammoud R; Tulliez M; Tran A; Trebeden H; Jaffray P; Malassagne B; Calmus Y; Weill B; Batteux F', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Toxicology ', 'title': 'Modulators of the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism: synthesis and preliminary biological evaluation of (S)-4-(ethylsulfonyl)benzoylalanine, a potent and selective kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II) inhibitor'}, {'document': ['Aim: The action of ciprofibrate in hypertriglyceridemic patients is well established.  Not only is ciprofibrate able to alter the lipid profile, but it can also change the values of fibrinogen, C-reactive protein, creatinine, transaminases, γ-glutamyl transpeptidase and serum alk. phosphatase.  However, previous studies focused on the effect of ciprofibrate in hypertriglyceridemic patients, leaving unanswered the question of whether ciprofibrate exerts the same effect on hyperlipidemic patients with normal triglyceride values.  The aim of this study is to answer this question.  Methods: In this randomized clin. trial, 64 men and women with elevated cholesterol or triglyceride levels were included.  Two subgroups were formed according to triglyceride levels: one (36 patients) with elevated triglyceride levels (> 200 mg/dL [2.26 mmol/L]) and another (28 patients) with normal triglyceride levels (< 200 mg/dL [2.26 mmol/l]).  After a 6-wk period of step 1 diet according to the National Cholesterol Education Program, ciprofibrate (100 mg once daily) was administered for 16 wk.  Primary efficacy points were the changes of lipid parameters total cholesterol, high d. lipoprotein cholesterol, low d. lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, apoproteins A1, B, E and lipoprotein [a], high sensitivity C reactive protein, fibrinogen, glucose, insulin, aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, γ-glutamyl transpeptidase, alk. phosphatase, urea and creatinine levels in a fasting blood sample before and after treatment with ciprofibrate.  Results: The subgroup with triglyceride < 200 mg/dL (2.26 mmol/L): After the administration of ciprofibrate total cholesterol and low-d. lipoprotein cholesterol were reduced by 15% (P < 0.001), and 19% (P < 0.001), resp., while high-d. lipoprotein cholesterol increased by 9% (P = 0.02).  Apoproteins B and E levels were reduced by 21% (P < 0.001) and 11% (P = 0.002), resp.  Subgroup with triglyceride > 200 mg/dL (2.26 mmol/L): After the administration of ciprofibrate, no significant change in LDL cholesterol levels was obsd.  Total cholesterol levels were reduced by 15% (P < 0.001) and high-d. lipoprotein cholesterol levels were increased by 13% (P = 0.004).  Apoprotein B and apoprotein E levels were reduced by 16% (P < 0.001) and 30% (P < 0.001), resp.  Apoprotein-A1 levels were increased by 5% (P = 0.024).  In the whole group of patients, the fibrinogen levels fell by 7% (P = 0.043), and the serum creatinine level increased by 10% (P < 0.001).  This rise in serum creatinine was more pronounced in patients with low triglyceride levels (15% vs. 5%, P = 0.009).  Ciprofibrate decreased C-reactive protein levels by 26% in 44 patients who had C-reactive protein measurements (P < 0.001).  γ-Glutamyl transpeptidase activity was similarly decreased (by approx. 40%) in both groups of patients.  Alk. phosphatase activity decreased in both groups, a redn. which was greater in hypertriglyceridemics (20% vs. 10%, P = 0.004).  Conclusions: Ciprofibrate improved some of the vascular risk factors, such as total cholesterol, low-d. lipoprotein cholesterol, high-d. lipoprotein cholesterol, apoproteins A1, B, and E, and fibrinogen levels in both hypertriglyceridemics and normotriglyceridemics.  In addn., ciprofibrate raised the serum creatinine and improved the activity of the hepatic enzymes in the plasma in both patient subgroups.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['action of ciprofibrate', 'randomized clin. trial', 'Primary efficacy points', 'changes of lipid parameters'], 'process': ['alter the lipid profile', 'serum alk. phosphatase', 'elevated cholesterol or triglyceride levels', 'elevated triglyceride levels', 'normal triglyceride levels', 'step 1 diet', 'aspartate transaminase', 'alanine transaminase', 'γ-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'alk. phosphatase', 'fibrinogen levels', 'rise in serum creatinine', 'low triglyceride levels', 'decreased C-reactive protein', 'Alk. phosphatase activity', 'raised the serum creatinine', 'activity of the hepatic enzymes'], 'material': ['ciprofibrate', 'fibrinogen', 'C-reactive', 'creatinine', 'transaminases', 'γ-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'ciprofibrate', 'ciprofibrate', 'hyperlipidemic patients', '64 men and women', 'Two subgroups', '36 patients', '28 patients', 'National Cholesterol Education Program', 'ciprofibrate', 'total cholesterol', 'high d. lipoprotein cholesterol', 'low d. lipoprotein cholesterol', 'triglycerides', 'high sensitivity C reactive protein', 'fibrinogen', 'glucose', 'insulin', 'urea', 'fasting blood sample', 'ciprofibrate', 'ciprofibrate', 'total cholesterol', 'high-d. lipoprotein cholesterol', 'Apoproteins B', 'ciprofibrate', 'LDL cholesterol', 'Total cholesterol', 'high-d. lipoprotein cholesterol', 'Apoprotein B', 'Apoprotein-A1', 'serum creatinine', 'Ciprofibrate', 'C-reactive protein', 'γ-Glutamyl transpeptidase activity', 'Ciprofibrate', 'vascular risk factors', 'total cholesterol', 'low-d. lipoprotein cholesterol', 'high-d. lipoprotein cholesterol', 'fibrinogen', 'ciprofibrate']}], 'authors': 'Gill, Tejendra S.; Tewari, Hema; Pande, Jaishree', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.amjcard.2004.04.024', 'journal': 'American Journal of Cardiology ', 'title': 'Characteristics of dengue fever in a large public hospital, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia'}, {'document': ['OBJECTIVE:  Our recent study indicates that administration of adrenomedullin (AM) in combination with AM-binding protein-1 (AMBP-1) before sepsis (i.e., pretreatment) maintains cardiovascular stability and reduces the mortality rate.  The aim of the present study was to determine whether administration of AM/AMBP-1 after the onset of sepsis (posttreatment) has any salutary effects on the septic host, and if so, whether AM/AMBP-1 down-regulates proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and interleukin-6.  DESIGN:  Prospective, controlled, randomized animal study.  SETTING:  A university research laboratory.  SUBJECTS:  Male adult Sprague-Dawley rats.  INTERVENTIONS:  Rats were subjected either to polymicrobial sepsis by cecal ligation and puncture or to sham operation followed by the administration of normal saline solution (i.e., fluid resuscitation).  MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS:  At 5 hrs after cecal ligation and puncture, AM (12 microg/kg body weight) and AMBP-1 (40 microg/kg body weight) were administered intravenously over 1 hr.  At 20 hrs after cecal ligation and puncture (i.e., the late, hypodynamic stage of sepsis), cardiac output, stroke volume, total peripheral resistance, systemic oxygen delivery, and organ blood flow were determined by radioactive microspheres, and circulating concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits.  Moreover, plasma concentrations of transaminases and lactate were measured.  The results indicated that administration of AM/AMBP-1 at 5 hrs after cecal ligation and puncture prevented the decrease in measured systemic and regional hemodynamic variables and reduced plasma concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and interleukin-6 at 20 hrs after the onset of sepsis.  Moreover, administration of AM/AMBP-1 attenuated hepatic damage and the increase in plasma lactate and prevented hemoconcentration.  CONCLUSION:  Administration of AM/AMBP-1 may provide a novel approach to the treatment of sepsis.  Moreover, because AM/AMBP-1 significantly reduced circulating concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and interleukin-6, down-regulation of those proinflammatory cytokines by AM/AMBP-1 appears to play an important role for the beneficial effects of these agents in polymicrobial sepsis.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['reduces the mortality rate', 'determine whether administration of', 'Prospective, controlled, randomized animal study', 'treatment of sepsis'], 'process': ['administration of adrenomedullin', 'sepsis', 'pretreatment', 'down-regulates proinflammatory cytokines', 'polymicrobial sepsis', 'cecal ligation and puncture', 'sham operation', 'fluid resuscitation', 'cecal ligation and puncture', 'cecal ligation and puncture', 'cecal ligation and puncture', 'reduced plasma concentrations', 'sepsis', 'hepatic damage', 'down-regulation of those proinflammatory cytokines'], 'material': ['AM', 'AM-binding protein-1', 'AMBP-1', 'AM/AMBP-1 after the onset of sepsis', 'septic host', 'AM/AMBP-1', 'tumor necrosis factor-alpha', 'university research laboratory', 'Male adult Sprague-Dawley rats', 'normal saline solution', 'AM', 'AMBP-1', 'cardiac output', 'total peripheral resistance', 'systemic oxygen delivery', 'radioactive microspheres', 'circulating concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines', 'enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits', 'plasma concentrations of transaminases', 'lactate', 'AM/AMBP-1', 'tumor necrosis factor', 'AM/AMBP-1', 'plasma lactate', 'AM/AMBP-1', 'AM/AMBP-1', 'tumor necrosis factor', 'AM/AMBP-1']}], 'authors': 'Elliott T; Avissar Y J; Rhie G E; Beale S I', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'Acrylamide-induced oxidative stress and biochemical perturbations in rats'}, {'document': ['The present study describes the isolation of a protein from Escherichia coli possessing kynurenine aminotransferase (KAT) activity and its identification as aspartate aminotransferase (AspAT).  KAT catalyses the transamination of kynurenine and 3-hydroxykynurenine to kynurenic acid and xanthurenic acid respectively, and the enzyme activity can be easily detected in E. coli cells.  Separation of the E. coli protein possessing KAT activity through various chromatographic steps led to the isolation of the enzyme.  N-terminal sequencing of the purified protein determined its first 10 N-terminal amino acid residues, which were identical with those of the E. coli AspAT.  Recombinant AspAT (R-AspAT), homologously expressed in an E. coli/pET22b expression system, was capable of catalysing the transamination of both l-kynurenine (K(m)=3 mM; V(max)=7.9 micromol.min(-1).mg(-1)) and 3-hydroxy-dl-kynurenine (K(m)=3.7 mM; V(max)=1.25 micromol.min(-1).mg(-1)) in the presence of pyruvate as an amino acceptor, and exhibited its maximum activity at temperatures between 50-60 degrees C and at a pH of approx. 7.0.  Like mammalian KATs, R-AspAT also displayed high glutamine transaminase K activity when l-phenylalanine was used as an amino donor (K(m)=8 mM; V(max)=20.6 micromol.min(-1).mg(-1)).  The exact match of the first ten N-terminal amino acid residues of the KAT-active protein with that of AspAT, in conjunction with the high KAT activity of R-AspAT, provides convincing evidence that the identity of the E. coli protein is AspAT.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['isolation of a protein from Escherichia coli'], 'process': ['kynurenine aminotransferase', 'KAT', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'enzyme activity', 'Separation', 'KAT activity', 'chromatographic steps', 'N-terminal sequencing', 'glutamine transaminase K activity', 'KAT activity'], 'material': ['AspAT', 'KAT', '3-hydroxykynurenine', 'kynurenic acid', 'xanthurenic acid', 'E. coli cells', 'E. coli protein', 'enzyme', 'N-terminal amino acid residues', 'E. coli AspAT', 'AspAT', 'R-AspAT', 'E. coli/pET22b expression system', 'l-kynurenine', '3-hydroxy-dl-kynurenine', 'pyruvate', 'amino acceptor', 'mammalian KATs', 'R-AspAT', 'l-phenylalanine', 'amino donor', 'KAT-active protein', 'AspAT', 'R-AspAT', 'AspAT']}], 'authors': 'Berg C M; Shaw K J; Vender J; Borucka-Mankiewicz M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, Part C:  Pharmacology, Toxicology & Endocrinology ', 'title': 'Safety and compliance with once-daily niacin extended-release/lovastatin as initial therapy in the Impact of Medical Subspecialty on Patient Compliance to Treatment (IMPACT) study'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  The non-proteinogenic amino acid p-hydroxyphenylglycine is a crucial component of certain peptidic natural products synthesized by a non-ribosomal peptide synthetase mechanism.  In particular, for the vancomycin group of antibiotics p-hydroxyphenylglycine plays a structural role in formation of the rigid conformation of the central heptapeptide aglycone in addition to being the site of glycosylation.  Initial labeling studies suggested tyrosine was a precursor of p-hydroxyphenylglycine but the specific steps in p-hydroxyphenylglycine biosynthesis remained unknown.  Recently, the sequencing of the chloroeremomycin gene cluster from Amycolatopsis orientalis gave new insights into the biosynthetic pathway and allowed for the prediction of a four enzyme pathway leading to L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine from the common metabolite prephenate.  RESULTS:  We have characterized three of the four proposed enzymes of the L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine biosynthetic pathway.  The three enzymes are encoded by open reading frames (ORFs) 21, 22 and 17 (ORF21: [PCZA361.1, O52791, CAA11761]; ORF22: [PCZA361. 2, O52792, CAA11762]; ORF17: [PCZA361.25, O52815, CAA11790]), of the chloroeremomycin biosynthetic gene cluster and we show they have p-hydroxymandelate synthase, p-hydroxymandelate oxidase and L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine transaminase activities, respectively.  CONCLUSIONS:  The L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine biosynthetic pathway shown here is proposed to be the paradigm for how this non-proteinogenic amino acid is synthesized by microorganisms incorporating it into peptidic natural products.  This conclusion is supported by the finding of homologs for the four L-p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate biosynthetic enzymes in four organisms known to synthesize peptidic natural products that contain p-hydroxyphenylglycine.  Three of the enzymes are proposed to function in a cyclic manner in vivo with L-tyrosine being both the amino donor for L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine and a source of p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate, an intermediate in the biosynthetic pathway.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biosynthetic pathway'], 'process': ['non-ribosomal peptide synthetase mechanism', 'glycosylation', 'labeling studies', 'p-hydroxyphenylglycine biosynthesis', 'sequencing of the chloroeremomycin gene cluster', 'four enzyme pathway', 'synthesize peptidic natural products', 'biosynthetic pathway'], 'material': ['non-proteinogenic amino acid p-hydroxyphenylglycine', 'peptidic natural products', 'p-hydroxyphenylglycine', 'central heptapeptide aglycone', 'tyrosine', 'p-hydroxyphenylglycine', 'Amycolatopsis orientalis', 'L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine', 'common metabolite prephenate', 'L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine biosynthetic pathway', 'open reading frames', 'PCZA361.1', 'PCZA361', 'chloroeremomycin biosynthetic gene cluster', 'p-hydroxymandelate synthase', 'p-hydroxymandelate oxidase', 'L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine transaminase activities', 'L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine biosynthetic pathway', 'non-proteinogenic amino acid', 'peptidic natural products', 'L-p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate biosynthetic enzymes', 'p-hydroxyphenylglycine', 'L-tyrosine', 'amino donor', 'L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine', 'p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate']}], 'authors': 'Kent P W; Allen A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Detoxification of reactive oxygen species by a nonpeptidyl mimic of superoxide dismutase cures acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure in the mouse'}, {'document': ['Gemcitabine is an effective agent in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.  The phosphorylation of gemcitabine into the active gemcitabine triphosphate (dFdCTP) is catalyzed by deoxycytidine kinase.  This enzyme is satd. at plasma concns. achieved after an infusion over 30 min.  Therefore accumulation of higher intracellular dFdCTP concns., which may result in an enhanced antineoplastic activity, cannot be achieved by higher dosage, but only by prolonged infusion time.  The objectives of this phase I trial were to det. the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) and the max. tolerated dose (MTD) of gemcitabine given as a 6 h i.v. infusion.  Patients with metastatic breast cancer were treated with gemcitabine as a 6 h infusion on days 1, 8 and 15 every 4 wk.  The starting dose was 200 mg/m2 with an interindividual escalation in 50 mg/m2 increments.  Sixteen patients received 196 doses through three dose levels.  All patients were assessable for toxicity, 13 assessable for response.  The MTD was 250 mg/m2.  DLT was obsd. at 300 mg/m2 consisting of a reversible elevation of transaminases WHO grade 3 in two patients and cutaneous toxicity grade 3 in one patient.  Most common non-hematol. toxicities were mild to moderate and rapidly reversible elevation of liver enzymes in all patients, nausea and vomiting (four patients grade 2, five patients grade 3), and mild alopecia.  Hematol. toxicity was mild with neutropenia WHO grade 3 and 4 in only one patient each, and no grade 3 thrombocytopenia.  One patient achieved a complete remission and another patient a partial response, for an overall response rate of 15% (two of 13).  In addn., seven patients (54%) had stable disease and four (31%) failed to respond to the treatment.  We conclude gemcitabine 250 mg/m2 days 1, 8 and 15 every 4 wk can be safely administered as 6 h infusion.  Toxicity, esp. myelosuppression, is surprisingly mild.  Based on this result a phase II study with 250 mg/m2 administered over 6 h was initiated to det. the efficacy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treatment of metastatic breast cancer', 'det. the dose-limiting toxicities', 'phase II study', 'det. the efficacy'], 'process': ['phosphorylation of gemcitabine into the active gemcitabine triphosphate', 'infusion', 'accumulation of higher intracellular dFdCTP concns.', 'higher dosage', 'prolonged infusion time', 'DLT', 'MTD', 'interindividual escalation', 'MTD', 'DLT', 'reversible elevation of transaminases', 'cutaneous toxicity', 'elevation of liver enzymes', 'nausea', 'neutropenia', 'addn', 'Toxicity', 'myelosuppression'], 'material': ['Gemcitabine', 'dFdCTP', 'deoxycytidine kinase', 'satd', 'phase I trial', 'max. tolerated dose', 'gemcitabine', '6 h i.v. infusion', 'Patients with metastatic breast cancer', 'gemcitabine', '6 h infusion', '196 doses', 'mild alopecia.', 'stable disease', 'gemcitabine 250 mg/m2 days 1, 8 and 15 every 4 wk', '6 h infusion', '250 mg/m2']}], 'authors': 'Papadimitriou Christos; Celikkaya Hilal; Cosacak Mehmet I; Mashkaryan Violeta; Bhattarai Prabesh; Brandt Kerstin; Hollak Heike; Bray Laura; Chen Xin; He Shuijin; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Genetics ', 'title': 'In vivo and in vitro effects of cadmium on selected enzymes in different organs of the fish Barbus conchonius Ham. (rosy barb)'}, {'document': ['The water toxicity of the Reconquista river, an urban and industrial polluted watercourse was tested.  Surface water samples from two points up and downstream of low and high pollution conditions were assayed.  Continuous-flow renewal bioassays under controlled lab. conditions were run for 21 days.  Alterations in the activity of enzymes involved in ion balance and hepatic metab. were detd. in juvenile carp Cyprinus carpio used as test species.  Branchial (Na+K)-ATPase and hepatic glutamic oxalacetate transaminase (GOT) and glutamic pyruvate transaminase activities were the selected biomarkers of toxicity.  Sublethal Cd solns. were used as a ref. toxicant.  Results showed that the activity of the enzymes were affected according to the deterioration of the river water quality.  Branchial (Na+K)-ATPase and liver GOT activity results were reliable indicators to discriminate river water samples of dissimilar pollution state.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['water toxicity', 'discriminate river water samples'], 'process': ['Continuous-flow renewal bioassays', 'Alterations in the activity of enzymes involved in', 'ion balance', 'hepatic metab.', 'hepatic glutamic oxalacetate transaminase', 'GOT', 'toxicity', 'activity of the enzymes', 'liver GOT activity'], 'material': ['Reconquista river', 'urban and industrial polluted watercourse', 'Surface water samples', 'juvenile carp', 'Cyprinus carpio', 'Branchial', 'Na+K)-ATPase and', 'glutamic pyruvate transaminase', 'Sublethal Cd solns', 'ref. toxicant', 'Branchial', 'Na+K)-ATPase and']}], 'authors': 'Parmeggiani Fabio; Weise Nicholas J; Ahmed Syed T; Turner Nicholas J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Cloning and sequence of the Salmonella typhimurium hemL gene and identification of the missing enzyme in hemL mutants as glutamate-1-semialdehyde aminotransferase'}, {'document': ["In Salmonella typhimurium, the CobU, CobS, CobT, and CobC proteins have been proposed to catalyze the late steps in adenosylcobalamin biosynthesis, which define the nucleotide loop assembly pathway.  This paper reports the in vitro assembly of the nucleotide loop of adenosylcobalamin from its precursors adenosylcobinamide, 5, 6-dimethylbenzimidazole, nicotinate mononucleotide, and GTP.  Incubation of these precursors with the CobU, CobS, and CobT proteins resulted in the synthesis of adenosylcobalamin-5'-phosphate.  This cobamide was isolated by HPLC, identified by UV-visible spectroscopy and mass spectrometry, and shown to support growth of a cobalamin auxotroph.  Adenosylcobalamin-5'-phosphate was also isolated from reaction mixtures containing adenosylcobinamide-GDP (the product of the CobU reaction) and alpha-ribazole-5'-phosphate (the product of the CobT reaction) as substrates and CobS.  These results allowed us to conclude that CobS is the cobalamin(-5'-phosphate) synthase enzyme in S. typhimurium.  The CobC enzyme, previously shown to dephosphorylate alpha-ribazole-5'-phosphate to alpha-ribazole, was shown to dephosphorylate adenosylcobalamin-5'-phosphate to adenosylcobalamin.  Adenosylcobinamide was converted to adenosylcobalamin in reactions where all four enzymes were present in the reaction mixture.  This in vitro system offers a unique opportunity for the rapid synthesis and isolation of cobamides with structurally different lower-ligand bases that can be used to investigate the contributions of the lower-ligand base to cobalamin-dependent reactions."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['rapid synthesis and isolation', 'investigate the contributions of the lower-ligand base'], 'process': ['adenosylcobalamin biosynthesis', 'nucleotide loop assembly pathway', 'in vitro assembly of the nucleotide loop of adenosylcobalamin', 'Incubation', "synthesis of adenosylcobalamin-5'-phosphate.", 'HPLC', 'UV-visible spectroscopy', 'mass spectrometry', 'CobU reaction', 'CobT reaction', 'in vitro system', 'cobalamin-dependent reactions'], 'material': ['Salmonella typhimurium', 'CobU', 'CobS', 'CobT', 'CobC', 'adenosylcobinamide', '5, 6-dimethylbenzimidazole', 'nicotinate mononucleotide', 'GTP', 'CobU', 'CobS', 'CobT proteins', 'cobamide', 'cobalamin auxotroph', "Adenosylcobalamin-5'-phosphate was also", 'adenosylcobinamide-GDP', "alpha-ribazole-5'-phosphate (", 'CobS.', 'CobS', "cobalamin(-5'-phosphate) synthase enzyme", 'CobC enzyme', "alpha-ribazole-5'-phosphate to alpha-ribazole", 'adenosylcobalamin', 'Adenosylcobinamide', 'adenosylcobalamin', 'cobamides', 'lower-ligand bases']}], 'authors': 'Hartmann Michael; Kim Denis; Bernsdorff Friederike; Ajami-Rashidi Ziba; Scholten Nicola; Schreiber Stefan; Zeier Tatyana; Schuck Stefan; Reichel-Deland Vanessa; Zeier Jurgen', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Developmental cell ', 'title': 'Physiological characterization of polar Tn5-induced isoleucine-valine auxotrophs in Escherichia coli K.12: evidence for an internal promoter in the ilvOGEDA operon'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND/AIMS:  The effects of corticosteroids on chronic hepatitis B have provided insight into the mechanism of liver cell injury caused by hepatitis B.  In this study, this model was applied to investigate the effects of prednisone on alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA levels in chronic hepatitis C.  METHODS:  Ten patients with chronic hepatitis C who had increased levels of ALT and HCV RNA detectable in serum were given a 7-week course of a tapering dose of prednisone.  Quantitation of serum HCV RNA was determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and by branched-chain DNA amplification.  RESULTS:  ALT levels decreased in 8 of 10 patients during therapy.  Mean ALT levels of all 10 patients decreased from 184 to 84 U/L (P = 0.002) and then rebounded in 7 of the 8 patients after discontinuation of prednisone.  HCV RNA was detectable by the branched DNA technique in 9 of 10 patients.  These values increased in all 9 patients during prednisone therapy.  The mean serum HCV RNA levels increased from 40.9 before treatment to 414.3 Eq/mL x 10(5) during treatment (P = 0.043).  Using PCR, HCV RNA titers increased one log-fold in 8 of 10 patients (geometric mean of 1:4420 to 1:23410).  HCV RNA levels decreased to pretreatment values within a mean of 2.8 weeks (range, 1-5) after discontinuation of prednisone.  CONCLUSIONS:  These responses in ALT and HCV RNA suggest the participation of an immune-mediated mechanism in the liver cell injury in chronic hepatitis C.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['mechanism of liver cell injury', 'Quantitation of serum HCV RNA', 'liver cell injury'], 'process': ['polymerase chain reaction', 'PCR', 'branched-chain DNA amplification', 'branched DNA technique', 'PCR'], 'material': ['alanine aminotransferase', 'ALT', 'hepatitis C virus', 'HCV', 'ALT', 'HCV RNA', '7-week course', 'ALT', 'ALT', 'HCV RNA', 'HCV RNA', 'HCV RNA', 'HCV RNA', 'ALT', 'immune-mediated mechanism']}], 'authors': 'Ding Pingtao; Ding Yuli; Li Xin; Jetter Reinhard; Zhang Yuelin; Rekhter Dmitrij; Feussner Kirstin; Haroth Sven; Feussner Ivo; Busta Lucas; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Chemical reviews ', 'title': 'The biosynthesis of intestinal mucins. The effect of salicylate on glycoprotein biosynthesis by sheep colonic and human gastric mucosal tissues in vitro'}, {'document': ['1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase (EC 4.4.1.14) is the key regulatory enzyme in the ethylene biosynthetic pathway.  The identification and characterization of a full-length cDNA (pAIM-1) 1941 bp in length for indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)-induced ACC synthase is described in this paper.  The pAIM-1 clone has an 87 bp leader and a 402 bp trailing sequence.  The open reading frame is 1452 bp long encoding for a 54.6 kDa polypeptide (484 amino acids) which has a calculated isoelectric point of 6.0.  In vitro transcription and translation experiments support the calculated molecular weight and show that the enzyme does not undergo processing.  Eleven of the twelve amino acid residues which are conserved in aminotransferases are found in pAIM-1.  The sequence for pMAC-1 which is one of the 5 genes we have identified in mung bean is contained in pAIM-1. pAIM-1 shares between 52 to 65% homology with previously reported sequences for ACC synthase at the protein level.  There is little detectable pAIM-1 message found in untreated mung bean tissues; however, expression is apparent within 30 min following the addition of 10 microM IAA reaching a peak after approximately 5 h with a slight decrease in message after 12 h.  These changes in message correlate with changes in ACC levels found in these tissues following treatment with 10 microM IAA.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['synthase (', 'ethylene biosynthetic pathway', 'identification and characterization', 'ACC synthase', 'In vitro transcription and translation experiments', 'processing', 'ACC synthase'], 'material': ['1-Aminocyclopropane-1', 'ACC', 'full-length cDNA', 'pAIM-1', 'indole-3-acetic', 'pAIM-1 clone', '87 bp leader and a 402 bp trailing sequence', 'open reading frame', '54.6 kDa polypeptide', '484 amino acids', 'aminotransferases', 'pAIM-1', 'pMAC-1', 'mung bean', 'pAIM-1', 'pAIM-1', 'mung bean', 'IAA', 'message', 'ACC', '10 microM IAA']}], 'authors': 'McKenna Mary C; McKenna Mary C; Stridh Malin H; McNair Laura F; Sonnewald Ursula; Waagepetersen Helle S; Schousboe Arne; Sonnewald Ursula', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant physiology ', 'title': ' Incubation of sheep colonic mucosal scrapings in Krebs-Ringer buffer for 2(1/2)hr. in the presence of salicylate (15mm) resulted in decreased incorporation of radioactivity into the epithelial glycoprotein from the following labelled precursors: 16.6mum-d-[2-(14)C]glucose (83.9% inhibition), 20mum-l-[U-(14)C]threonine (82%) and (35)SO(4) (2-)(79%).  Oxygen uptake measured simultaneously was diminished to 41% of the control value. 2.  At lower concentrations of salicylate (e.g. 3.75mm), incorporation of 20mum-l-[U-(14)C]threonine was little affected (3-6% inhibition), whereas utilization of 4mum-d-[U-(14)C]glucose and (35)SO(4) (2-) was inhibited (41-48% and 40-59% of the control values respectively). 3.  Analysis of the papain-digested glycoprotein from tissue incubations with 16.6mum-d-[2-(14)C]glucose in the presence of salicylate (3.75mm) showed large decreases in labelling of N-acetylneuraminic acid and N-glycollylneuraminic acid residues (57% and 34% of the control values respectively) and of hexosamine constituents (glucosamine, 55% inhibition; galactosamine, 33% inhibition).  Labelling of neutral sugars (galactose and fucose) was relatively little affected (9 and 11% inhibition respectively). 4.  Glucose 6-phosphate transaminase and glucosamine 6-phosphate acetylase in particle-free enzyme preparations of the sheep tissue were unaffected by salicylate at the above concentrations.  Acetyl-CoA synthetase was markedly inhibited. 5.  Human gastric mucosa (from operation), on incubation as above, had in one experiment an oxygen consumption of 9.9mul./hr./mg. dry wt. of tissue and incorporated 5mum-d-[U-(14)C]glucose (15.8% of the total radioactivity added) into bound hexosamine (20.6% of the total radioactivity incorporated), hexoses (glucose and galactose, 5.7%) and fucose (14.2%).  The presence of salicylate (15mm) decreased the incorporation of 5mum-d-[U-(14)C]glucose into the glycoprotein by 74%, all sugar constituents being affected, without influence on the rate of oxygen consumption. 6.  The results suggest an inhibitory effect of salicylate on glycoprotein biosynthesis at the level of the amino sugar intermediates.'}, {'document': ['Pseudomonas fluorescens strain CHA0 is an effective biocontrol agent against soil-borne fungal plant pathogens.  In this study, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) biosynthesis in strain CHA0 was investigated.  Two key enzyme activities were found to be involved: tryptophan side chain oxidase (TSO) and tryptophan transaminase.  TSO was induced in the stationary growth phase.  By fractionation of a cell extract of strain CHA0 on DEAE-Sepharose, two distinct peaks of constitutive tryptophan transaminase activity were detected.  A pathway leading from tryptophan to IAA via indole-3-acetamide, which occurs in Pseudomonas syringae subsp. savastanoi, was not present in strain CHA0.  IAA synthesis accounted for less than or equal to 1.5% of exogenous tryptophan consumed by resting cells of strain CHA0, indicating that the bulk of tryptophan was catabolized via yet another pathway involving anthranilic acid as an intermediate.  Strain CHA750, a mutant lacking TSO activity, was obtained after Tn5 mutagenesis of strain CHA0.  In liquid cultures (pH 6.8) supplemented with 10 mM-L-tryptophan, growing cells of strains CHA0 and CHA750 synthesized the same amount of IAA, presumably using the tryptophan transaminase pathway.  In contrast, resting cells of strain CHA750 produced five times less IAA in a buffer (pH 6.0) containing 1 mM-L-tryptophan than did resting cells of the wild-type, illustrating the major contribution of TSO to IAA synthesis under these conditions.  In artificial soils at pH approximately 7 or pH approximately 6, both strains had similar abilities to suppress take-all disease of wheat or black root rot of tobacco.  This suggests that TSO-dependent IAA synthesis is not essential for disease suppression.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['biosynthesis in', 'tryptophan side chain oxidase', 'TSO', 'tryptophan transaminase', 'fractionation', 'constitutive tryptophan transaminase activity', 'IAA synthesis', 'TSO activity', 'Tn5 mutagenesis', 'tryptophan transaminase pathway', 'IAA synthesis', 'suppress take-all disease', 'TSO-dependent IAA synthesis', 'disease suppression'], 'material': ['Pseudomonas fluorescens strain', 'biocontrol agent', 'soil-borne fungal plant pathogens', 'indole-3-acetic acid', 'IAA', 'TSO', 'cell extract', 'DEAE-Sepharose', 'two distinct peaks', 'tryptophan', 'IAA', 'indole-3-acetamide', 'Pseudomonas syringae subsp', 'CHA0', 'exogenous tryptophan', 'resting cells', 'tryptophan', 'anthranilic acid', 'Strain CHA750', 'CHA0', 'liquid cultures', 'mM-L-tryptophan', 'growing cells', 'CHA0', 'CHA750', 'IAA', 'resting cells', 'CHA750', 'IAA', 'buffer', 'resting cells', 'TSO', 'artificial soils', 'wheat', 'black root rot', 'tobacco']}], 'authors': 'Fischereder, Eva-Maria; Pressnitz, Desiree; Kroutil, Wolfgang', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Plant cell ', 'title': "3D Culture Method for Alzheimer's Disease Modeling Reveals Interleukin-4 Rescues Aβ42-Induced Loss of Human Neural Stem Cell Plasticity"}, {'document': ['The activity of the amino sugar-synthesizing enzyme L-glutamine:D-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.16) in haploid a cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae increases 1.7-fold after alpha factor addition.  The gene (the gene should be called GFA1 for glutamine:fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase) for the enzyme has been cloned by complementing the gcn1 mutation (Whelan, W.  L., and Ballou, C.  E. (1975) J.  Bacteriol. 125, 1545-1557).  Its expression is increased 2-3 times within 15 min when the mating pheromone is added.  The gene codes for a protein of 716 amino acids in length.  It is highly homologous (64%) to the corresponding gene of Escherichia coli, except for a sequence coding for 83 amino acids (numbers 204-286), which is lacking in E. coli.  The amino-terminal region of the coding sequence also shows a high degree of homology to the corresponding sequence of the E. coli and S. cerevisiae L-glutamine:phosphoribosylpyrophosphate amidotransferase.  In the promotor region of the S. cerevisiae L-glutamine:D-fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase gene the heptanucleotide "TGAAACA," shown to be required for pheromone control of transcription (Kronstad, J.  W., Holly, J.  A., and MacKay, V.  L. (1987) Cell 50, 369-377), is present six times.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Cell 50, 369-377)'], 'process': ['alpha factor addition', 'gcn1 mutation', 'pheromone control of transcription'], 'material': ['amino sugar-synthesizing enzyme', 'L-glutamine', '-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase', 'haploid a cells', 'GFA1', 'fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase', 'mating pheromone', 'Escherichia coli', 'E. coli', 'amino-terminal region', 'coli', 'S. cerevisiae', 'L-glutamine', 'phosphoribosylpyrophosphate amidotransferase', 'S. cerevisiae L-glutamine', ':D-fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase', 'heptanucleotide "', 'TGAAACA']}], 'authors': 'Villegas-Torres, Maria F.; Martinez-Torres, R. Julio; Cazeres, Armando; Hailes, Helen; Baganz, Frank; Ward, John', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of neuroscience research ', 'title': 'Synthetic and Therapeutic Applications of Ammonia-lyases and Aminomutases'}, {'document': ['A deficiency of activity of the peroxisomal enzyme alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT,EC 2.6.1.44)has been found in the livers of six patients with primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH), including three in whom the tissue was obtained by percutaneous needle biopsy.  AGT activity, assayed in unfractionated liver tissue, ranged from 11 to 47% of the mean control value, and appeared to be related to the clinical severity of PH and to several biochemical variables which indicate the degree of pathophysiological derangement.  There was no difference between patients and controls in the activities of glutamate: glyoxylate aminotransferase (GGT, EC 2.6.1.4) or catalase (EC 1.11.1.6).  In the five most severe cases residual AGT activity could be largely accounted for by the crossover from another enzyme, presumably GGT.  PH can be diagnosed using percutaneous hepatic needle biopsy and assay of AGT, whose activity may be useful in determining the prognosis and likely severity of the disease.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['determining the prognosis and likely severity of the disease'], 'process': ['deficiency of activity', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'primary hyperoxaluria', 'PH', 'percutaneous needle biopsy', 'AGT activity', 'PH', 'GGT', 'AGT activity', 'percutaneous hepatic needle biopsy', 'assay of AGT'], 'material': ['unfractionated liver tissue', 'biochemical variables', 'glutamate: glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'catalase', 'GGT']}], 'authors': 'Valayannopoulos, Vassili; Malinova, Vera; Honzik, Tomas; Balwani, Manisha; Breen, Catherine; Deegan, Patrick B.; Enns, Gregory M.; Jones, Simon A.; Kane, John P.; Stock, Eveline O.; et al', 'DOI': '10.1021/acscatal.5b01839', 'journal': 'ACS Catalysis ', 'title': 'Biochemical Principles and Functional Aspects of Pipecolic Acid Biosynthesis in Plant Immunity'}, {'document': ['A miniaturized packed bed reactor (MPBR) applying LentiKats with immobilized ω-transaminase was developed as a tool for continuous enzymic process establishment.  A systematic increase in reactor capacity was achieved by increasing individual dimensions of the rectangular and hexagonal channels, where lens-shaped polyvinyl alc. particles were either uniformly or randomly distributed.  Evaluation of reactors with vols. ranging from a few μL up to several mL revealed the benefit of using a single layer of particles packed between two plates forming a wide channel with triangular inlet and outlet parts contg. pillars, where very high prodn. rates and biocatalyst accessibility were achieved.  MPBR was also used to establish temp. dependence of the immobilized ω-transaminase yielding 55 °C as an optimal temp.  More than 80% of the initial productivity was retained after 21 days of continuous operation of the MPBR at 24 °C, suggesting a high operational stability.  The miniaturized reactor developed in this study was found to be very efficient for ω-transaminases-catalyzed chiral amine process development.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['continuous enzymic process establishment', 'establish temp. dependence', 'operational stability'], 'process': ['reactor', 'increasing individual dimensions of the rectangular and hexagonal channels', 'prodn. rates', 'chiral amine process development'], 'material': ['miniaturized packed bed reactor', 'MPBR', 'LentiKats', 'immobilized ω-transaminase', 'lens-shaped polyvinyl alc', 'reactors', 'vols', 'single layer of particles', 'biocatalyst', 'MPBR', 'ω-transaminase', 'MPBR', 'miniaturized reactor', 'ω-transaminases']}], 'authors': 'Hoyer-Kuhn Heike; Kohbrok Sina; Volland Ruth; Franklin Jeremy; Hero Barbara; Beck Bodo B; Hoppe Bernd', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.enzmictec.2015.07.003', 'journal': 'Enzyme and Microbial Technology ', 'title': 'Characterization of a Pipecolic Acid Biosynthesis Pathway Required for Systemic Acquired Resistance'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Mutations in the isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) gene that are frequently observed in low-grade glioma are strongly associated with the accumulation of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG), which is a valuable diagnostic and prognostic biomarker of IDH1 mutant glioma.  However, conventional MR spectroscopy (MRS)-based noninvasive detection of 2HG is challenging.  In this study, we aimed to determine the additional value of other metabolites in predicting IDH1 mutations with conventional MRS.  METHODS:  Forty-seven patients with glioma underwent conventional single voxel short echo time MRS prior to surgery.  A stereotactic navigation-guided operation was performed to resect tumor tissues in the center of the MRS voxel.  MRS-based measurements of metabolites were validated with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.  We also conducted integrated analyses of glioma cell lines and clinical samples to examine the other metabolite levels and molecular findings in IDH1 mutant gliomas.  RESULTS:  A metabolomic analysis demonstrated higher levels of 2HG in IDH1 mutant glioma cells and surgical tissues.  Interestingly, glutamate levels were significantly decreased in IDH1 mutant gliomas.  Through an analysis of metabolic enzyme genes in glutamine pathways, it was shown that the expressions of branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 were reduced and glutamate dehydrogenase levels were elevated in IDH1 mutant gliomas.  Conventional MRS detection of glutamate and 2HG resulted in a high diagnostic accuracy (sensitivity 72%, specificity 96%) for IDH1 mutant glioma.  CONCLUSIONS:  IDH1 mutations alter glutamate metabolism.  Combining glutamate levels optimizes the 2HG-based monitoring of IDH1 mutations via MRS and represents a reliable clinical application for diagnosing IDH1 mutant gliomas.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['IDH1', 'noninvasive detection of 2HG', 'determine the additional value of other metabolites', 'predicting IDH1 mutations', 'resect tumor tissues', 'other metabolite levels and molecular findings', 'diagnosing IDH1 mutant gliomas'], 'process': ['Mutations in the isocitrate dehydrogenase', 'conventional MR spectroscopy', 'conventional MRS', 'stereotactic navigation-guided operation', 'MRS-based measurements', 'gas chromatography-mass spectrometry', 'integrated analyses', 'metabolomic analysis', 'glutamine pathways', 'Conventional MRS detection', 'sensitivity', 'IDH1 mutations', 'alter glutamate metabolism', 'Combining glutamate levels', '2HG-based monitoring of IDH1 mutations', 'MRS'], 'material': ['low-grade glioma', '2-hydroxyglutarate', '2HG', 'conventional single voxel short echo time MRS', 'MRS voxel', 'metabolites', 'glioma cell', 'clinical samples', 'IDH1 mutant gliomas', '2HG', 'IDH1 mutant glioma cells', 'surgical tissues', 'glutamate', 'IDH1 mutant gliomas', 'metabolic enzyme genes', 'branched-chain amino acid transaminase', 'glutamate dehydrogenase', 'IDH1 mutant gliomas', 'glutamate', '2HG', 'IDH1 mutant glioma']}], 'authors': 'Feltenberger John David; Andrade Joao Marcus Oliveira; Paraiso Alanna; Barros Lucas Oliveira; Filho Aristides Batista Maia; Sinisterra Ruben D M; Sousa Frederico B; Guimaraes Andre Luiz Sena; de Paula Alfredo Mauricio Batista; Campagnole-Santos Maria Jose; et al', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.jhep.2014.06.022', 'journal': 'Journal of Hepatology ', 'title': 'Glutamate oxidation in astrocytes: Roles of glutamate dehydrogenase and aminotransferases'}, {'document': ['Primary hyperoxaluria 1 (PH1; Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man no. 259900), a typically lethal biochemical disorder, may be caused by the AGT(P11LG170R) allele in which the alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) enzyme is mistargeted from peroxisomes to mitochondria.  AGT contains a C-terminal peroxisomal targeting sequence, but mutations generate an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence that directs AGT from peroxisomes to mitochondria.  Although AGT(P11LG170R) is functional, the enzyme must be in the peroxisome to detoxify glyoxylate by conversion to alanine; in disease, amassed glyoxylate in the peroxisome is transported to the cytosol and converted to oxalate by lactate dehydrogenase, leading to kidney failure.  From a chemical genetic screen, we have identified small molecules that inhibit mitochondrial protein import.  We tested whether one promising candidate, Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved dequalinium chloride (DECA), could restore proper peroxisomal trafficking of AGT(P11LG170R).  Indeed, treatment with DECA inhibited AGT(P11LG170R) translocation into mitochondria and subsequently restored trafficking to peroxisomes.  Previous studies have suggested that a mitochondrial uncoupler might work in a similar manner.  Although the uncoupler carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone inhibited AGT(P11LG170R) import into mitochondria, AGT(P11LG170R) aggregated in the cytosol, and cells subsequently died.  In a cellular model system that recapitulated oxalate accumulation, exposure to DECA reduced oxalate accumulation, similar to pyridoxine treatment that works in a small subset of PH1 patients.  Moreover, treatment with both DECA and pyridoxine was additive in reducing oxalate levels.  Thus, repurposing the FDA-approved DECA may be a pharmacologic strategy to treat PH1 patients with mutations in AGT because an additional 75 missense mutations in AGT may also result in mistrafficking.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['PH1', 'Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man no.', 'inhibit mitochondrial protein import', 'restore proper peroxisomal trafficking', 'pharmacologic strategy', 'treat PH1 patients'], 'process': ['Primary hyperoxaluria', 'lactate dehydrogenase', 'kidney failure', 'chemical genetic screen', 'translocation', 'trafficking', 'mitochondrial uncoupler', 'import into', 'oxalate accumulation', 'pyridoxine treatment', 'reducing oxalate', 'mistrafficking'], 'material': ['alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'AGT', 'N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence', 'AGT', 'alanine', 'amassed glyoxylate', 'oxalate', 'small molecules', 'dequalinium', 'chloride', 'DECA', 'DECA', 'AGT(P11LG170R', 'uncoupler carbonyl cyanide', 'm-chlorophenyl', 'AGT(P11LG170R', 'cells', 'cellular model system', 'DECA', 'oxalate', 'DECA', 'pyridoxine', 'DECA', 'AGT', 'AGT']}], 'authors': 'Malik M Shaheer; Park Eul-Soo; Shin Jong-Shik', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Clinical journal of the American Society of Nephrology : CJASN ', 'title': 'Stereoselective Cascade to C3-Methylated Strictosidine Derivatives Employing Transaminases and Strictosidine Synthases'}, {'document': ['The gene encoding the liver-specific peroxisomal enzyme alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT, EC. 2.6.1.44) exists as two common polymorphic variants termed the "major" and "minor" alleles.  The P11L amino acid replacement encoded by the minor allele creates a hidden N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence, the unmasking of which occurs in the hereditary calcium oxalate kidney stone disease primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1).  This unmasking is due to the additional presence of a common disease-specific G170R mutation, which is encoded by about one third of PH1 alleles.  The P11L and G170R replacements interact synergistically to reroute AGT to the mitochondria where it cannot fulfill its metabolic role (i.e. glyoxylate detoxification) effectively.  In the present study, we have reinvestigated the consequences of the interaction between P11L and G170R in stably transformed CHO cells and have studied for the first time whether a similar synergism exists between P11L and three other mutations that segregate with the minor allele (i.e.  I244T, F152I, and G41R).  Our investigations show that the latter three mutants are all able to unmask the cryptic P11L-generated mitochondrial targeting sequence and, as a result, all are mistargeted to the mitochondria.  However, whereas the G170R, I244T, and F152I mutants are able to form dimers and are catalytically active, the G41R mutant aggregates and is inactive.  These studies open up the possibility that all PH1 mutations, which segregate with the minor allele, might also lead to the peroxisome-to-mitochondrion mistargeting of AGT, a suggestion that has important implications for the development of treatment strategies for PH1.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['unmasking of which occurs in the', 'development of treatment strategies'], 'process': ['liver-specific peroxisomal enzyme', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'P11L amino acid replacement', 'hidden N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence', 'primary hyperoxaluria', 'PH1', 'unmasking', 'G170R replacements', 'glyoxylate detoxification', 'unmask the cryptic P11L-generated mitochondrial targeting sequence', 'PH1 mutations', 'peroxisome-to-mitochondrion mistargeting of AGT'], 'material': ['two common polymorphic variants', 'major" and "minor"', 'minor allele', 'hereditary calcium oxalate kidney stone disease', 'common disease-specific G170R mutation', 'one third of PH1 alleles', 'P11L', 'P11L', 'stably transformed CHO cells', 'P11L', 'minor allele', 'I244', 'G170R', 'G41R mutant', 'minor allele']}], 'authors': 'Hamden, Khaled; Jaouadi, Bassem; Carreau, Serge; Bejar, Samir; Elfeki, Abdelfattah', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hypertension ', 'title': 'Multi-step biocatalytic strategies for chiral amino alcohol synthesis'}, {'document': ["Prodn. of chiral amines using ω-transaminases has been thoroughly studied in recent years.  Immobilized ω-transaminases, however, have been used on relatively few occasions despite potential benefits such as reuse of enzyme and ease of product purifn.  In this study principally different methods including surface immobilization, entrapment and sweep flocculation using titanium oxide, Ca-alginate and chitosan resp. were evaluated for the immobilization of recombinant Escherichia coli cells.  The enzyme expressed was a modified Arthrobacter citreus ω-transaminase with improved thermostability.  The prepns. were compared in terms of cell loading capacity, operational stability in repeated batches and storage stability using the conversion of methylbenzylamine to acetophenone.The use of chitosan for cell immobilization proved to be the method of choice since it was both very simple and effective.  At a very high cell loading of 3.2 g cells/g chitosan >60% activity was obsd.  The prepn. was reused in eight successive 1-h batches with >90% remaining activity.  To further demonstrate its usability the prepn. was used for asym. synthesis of (S)-4'-cyano-(α)-methylbenzylamine in three repeated bathes (cycle time >20 h), using isopropylamine as the amine donor.  Storage stability was comparable with that of non-immobilized cells.  It was concluded that the chitosan method due to its properties and simplicity would be advantageous for use also on a larger scale."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Prodn. of chiral amines', 'ease of product purifn', 'principally different methods', 'operational stability'], 'process': ['reuse of enzyme', 'surface immobilization', 'entrapment', 'sweep flocculation', 'immobilization', 'cell immobilization', 'cell loading', "synthesis of (S)-4'-cyano-(α)-methylbenzylamine in three repeated bathes", 'chitosan method'], 'material': ['ω-transaminases', 'Immobilized ω-transaminases', 'titanium oxide', 'Ca-alginate', 'chitosan', 'recombinant Escherichia coli cells', 'Arthrobacter citreus ω-transaminase', 'prepns', 'acetophenone', 'chitosan', 'chitosan', 'prepn', 'prepn', 'isopropylamine', 'amine donor', 'non-immobilized cells']}], 'authors': 'Ko, Kwangsuk; Yang, Heping; Noureddin, Mazen; Iglesia-Ara, Ainhoa; Xia, Meng; Wagner, Conrad; Luka, Zigmund; Mato, Jose M.; Lu, Shelly C.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Applied microbiology and biotechnology ', 'title': 'Sebelipase alfa over 52 weeks reduces serum transaminases, liver volume and improves serum lipids in patients with lysosomal acid lipase deficiency'}, {'document': ['Powerful analytical tools are vital for characterizing the complex molecular changes underlying oncogenesis and cancer treatment.  This is particularly true, if information is to be collected in vivo by noninvasive approaches.  In the recent past, hyperpolarized (13)C magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy has been employed to quickly collect detailed spectral information on the chemical fate of tracer molecules in different tissues at high sensitivity.  Here, we report a preclinical study showing that alpha-ketoisocaproic acid (KIC) can be used to assess molecular signatures of tumors with hyperpolarized MR spectroscopy.  KIC is metabolized to leucine by the enzyme branched chain amino acid transferase (BCAT), which is found upregulated in some tumors.  BCAT is a putative marker for metastasis and a target of the proto-oncogene c-myc.  Very different fluxes through the BCAT-catalyzed reaction can be detected for murine lymphoma (EL4) and rat mammary adenocarcinoma (R3230AC) tumors in vivo.  EL4 tumors show a more than 7-fold higher hyperpolarized (13)C leucine signal relative to the surrounding healthy tissue.  In R3230AC tumor on the other hand branched chain amino acid metabolism is not enhanced relative to surrounding tissues.  The distinct molecular signatures of branched chain amino acid metabolism in EL4 and R3230AC tumors correlate well with ex vivo assays of BCAT activity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['characterizing the complex molecular changes', 'chemical fate of tracer molecules', 'assess molecular signatures of tumors', 'branched chain amino acid metabolism'], 'process': ['hyperpolarized (13)C magnetic resonance', 'MR) spectroscopy', 'hyperpolarized MR spectroscopy', 'branched chain amino acid transferase', 'metastasis', 'fluxes', 'BCAT-catalyzed reaction', 'hyperpolarized (13)C leucine signal', 'branched chain amino acid metabolism'], 'material': ['Powerful analytical tools', 'preclinical study', 'alpha-ketoisocaproic', 'KIC', 'KIC', 'leucine', 'BCAT', 'tumors', 'BCAT', 'c-myc', 'murine lymphoma', 'EL4', 'rat mammary adenocarcinoma', 'R3230AC', 'EL4 tumors', 'R3230AC tumor', 'EL4 and', 'R3230AC tumors', 'ex vivo assays of BCAT']}], 'authors': 'Tubaro, A.; Giangaspero, A.; Ardizzone, M.; Soranzo, M. R.; Vita, F.; Yasumoto, T.; Maucher, J. M.; Ramsdell, J. S.; Sosa, S.', 'DOI': '10.1007/s12257-009-3037-9', 'journal': 'Biotechnology and Bioprocess Engineering ', 'title': 'Vitamin B6 in primary hyperoxaluria I: first prospective trial after 40 years of practice'}, {'document': ['The aim was to study the effect of naringenin, a biol. active compd., on tissue antioxidant status and lipid peroxidn. in ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity in rats.  Rats were divided into four groups: Groups 1 and 2 received isocaloric glucose and 0.5% CM-cellulose; groups 3 and 4 received 20% ethanol equiv. to 6 g/kg daily for 60 days.  In addn., groups 2 and 4 were given naringenin (50 mg/kg) daily for the last 30 days of the expt.  The results showed significantly elevated levels of serum aspartate and alanine transaminases, γ-glutamyl transpeptidase, tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, conjugated dienes, lipid hydroperoxides and protein carbonyl content, and significantly lowered activities/levels of antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glutathione-S-transferase, reduced glutathione and vitamins C and E in ethanol-treated rats compared with control rats.  Administration of naringenin to rats with ethanol-induced liver injury significantly decreased the levels of serum aspartate and alanine transaminases, γ-glutamyl transpeptidase, tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, conjugated dienes, lipid hydroperoxides and protein carbonyl content and significantly elevated the activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glutathione-S-transferase, and the levels of reduced glutathione and vitamins C and E in the tissues compared with unsupplemented ethanol-treated rats.  Histol. changes obsd. in the liver correlated with the biochem. findings.  Taken together these findings suggest that naringenin has a therapeutic potential in the abatement of ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['study the effect of naringenin, a'], 'process': ['biol. active compd.', 'lipid peroxidn', 'ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity in rats', 'lowered activities/levels', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'ethanol-induced liver injury', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'Histol. changes'], 'material': ['tissue antioxidant status', 'isocaloric glucose', 'CM-cellulose', '20% ethanol', 'naringenin', 'serum aspartate and alanine transaminases', 'γ-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances', 'conjugated dienes', 'lipid hydroperoxides', 'protein carbonyl', 'antioxidants', 'superoxide', 'dismutase', 'catalase', 'glutathione reductase', 'reduced glutathione', 'ethanol', 'naringenin', 'serum aspartate and alanine transaminases', 'γ-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances', 'conjugated dienes', 'lipid hydroperoxides', 'protein carbonyl', 'superoxide', 'dismutase', 'catalase', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'glutathione reductase', 'reduced glutathione', 'naringenin']}], 'authors': 'Ko Kwangsuk; Yang Heping; Noureddin Mazen; Iglesia-Ara Ainhoa; Xia Meng; Wagner Conrad; Luka Zigmund; Mato Jose M; Lu Shelly C', 'DOI': '10.1038/labinvest.2008.69', 'journal': 'Laboratory Investigation ', 'title': 'Oral formulation of angiotensin-(1-7) improves lipid metabolism and prevents high-fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis and inflammation in mice'}, {'document': ['Oxidative stress leads to chronic liver damage.  Silybin has been conjugated with vitamin E and phospholipids to improve its antioxidant activity.  Eighty-five patients were divided into 2 groups: those affected by nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (group A) and those with HCV-related chronic hepatitis associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (group B), nonresponders to treatment.  The treatment consisted of silybin/vitamin E/phospholipids.  After treatment, group A showed a significant reduction in ultrasonographic scores for liver steatosis.  Liver enzyme levels, hyperinsulinemia, and indexes of liver fibrosis showed an improvement in treated individuals.  A significant correlation among indexes of fibrosis, body mass index, insulinemia, plasma levels of transforming growth factor-beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, degree of steatosis, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was observed.  Our data suggest that silybin conjugated with vitamin E and phospholipids could be used as a complementary approach to the treatment of patients with chronic liver damage.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['chronic liver damage', 'improve its antioxidant activity', 'treatment of patients with chronic liver damage'], 'process': ['Oxidative stress', 'conjugated with vitamin E and phospholipids', 'nonalcoholic fatty liver disease', 'treatment', 'liver steatosis', 'Liver enzyme levels', 'hyperinsulinemia', 'fibrosis', 'insulinemia', 'steatosis'], 'material': ['Silybin', 'HCV-related chronic hepatitis', 'silybin', '/vitamin E/phospholipids', 'indexes of liver fibrosis', 'body mass index', 'plasma levels', 'transforming growth factor', 'tumor necrosis factor', 'gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'silybin', 'phospholipids']}], 'authors': 'Mirabella Rossana; Rauwerda Han; Struys Eduard A; Jakobs Cornelis; Triantaphylides Christian; Haring Michel A; Schuurink Robert C', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.toxicon.2008.02.011', 'journal': 'Toxicon ', 'title': 'Features and technical applications of ω-transaminases'}, {'document': ['Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is a rare autosomal-recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of the liver-specific enzyme alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT).  AGT deficiency results in increased synthesis and excretion of the metabolic end-product oxalate and deposition of insoluble calcium oxalate in the kidney and urinary tract.  Classic treatments for PH1 have tended to address the more distal aspects of the disease process (i.e. the symptoms rather than the causes).  However, advances in the understanding of the molecular etiology of PH1 over the past decade have shifted attention towards the more proximal aspects of the disease process (i.e. the causes rather than the symptoms).  The determination of the crystal structure of AGT has enabled the effects of some of the most important missense mutations in the AGXT gene to be rationalised in terms of AGT folding, dimerization and stability.  This has opened up new possibilities for the design pharmacological agents that might counteract the destabilizing effects of these mutations and which might be of use for the treatment of a potentially life-threatening and difficult-to-treat disease.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['molecular etiology of PH1', 'design pharmacological agents', 'treatment of a potentially life-threatening and difficult-to-treat disease'], 'process': ['Primary hyperoxaluria', 'PH1', 'deficiency of the liver-specific enzyme', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'AGT deficiency', 'increased synthesis and excretion of the metabolic end-product', 'missense mutations', 'AGT folding', 'dimerization', 'stability'], 'material': ['oxalate', 'insoluble calcium oxalate', 'crystal structure', 'AGT', 'AGXT gene']}], 'authors': 'Schmeling, Heinrike; Biber, Daniel; Heins, Sigrid; Horneff, Gerd', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Laboratory investigation; a journal of technical methods and pathology ', 'title': 'Inhibitory effect of fenugreek galactomannan on digestive enzymes related to diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and liver-kidney dysfunctions'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  A definitive diagnosis of primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) and primary hyperoxaluria type 2 (PH2) requires the measurement of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) and glyoxylate reductase (GR) activities, respectively, in a liver biopsy.  We have evaluated a molecular genetic approach for the diagnosis of these autosomal-recessive diseases.  METHODS:  Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect three common mutations in the AGXT gene (c.33_34insC, c.508G>A, and c.731T>C) and one, c.103delG, in the GRHPR gene in DNA samples from 365 unrelated individuals referred for diagnosis of PH1 and/or PH2 by liver enzyme analysis.  RESULTS:  One or more of these mutations was found in 183 (68.8%) biopsy proven cases of PH1 and PH2 with a test negative predictive value of 62% and 2%, respectively. 102 (34.1%) patients were homozygous or compound heterozygous, making a molecular diagnosis possible.  Age of onset and presenting features were similar in patients homozygous for any of the four mutations.  Of the AGXT homozygotes, only the c.508G>A mutant was associated with significant AGT catalytic activity and in two of these activity was in the low normal range, possibly reflecting variation in mitochondrial content of the biopsy as this particular mutation is associated with mitochondrial mistargeting.  CONCLUSION:  Limited mutation analysis can provide a useful first line test for PH1 and PH2 in patients in whom primary hyperoxaluria is suspected and in whom secondary causes have been excluded.  Those patients in whom a single mutation, or no mutation, is found can then be selectively targeted for liver biopsy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['definitive diagnosis', 'primary hyperoxaluria', 'diagnosis of these autosomal-recessive diseases', 'detect three common mutations', 'molecular diagnosis', 'first line test'], 'process': ['primary hyperoxaluria', 'measurement of', 'alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT', 'glyoxylate reductase', 'GR', 'liver biopsy', 'molecular genetic approach', 'Polymerase chain reaction', 'PCR', 'liver enzyme analysis', 'AGT catalytic activity', 'mitochondrial mistargeting', 'Limited mutation analysis', 'primary hyperoxaluria', 'single mutation', 'liver biopsy'], 'material': ['AGXT gene', 'GRHPR gene', 'DNA samples', 'biopsy proven cases', 'AGXT homozygotes', 'c.508G>A mutant', 'secondary causes']}], 'authors': 'Moorthy K; Sharma D; Basir S F; Baquer N Z', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Plant journal : for cell and molecular biology ', 'title': 'Changes in S-adenosylmethionine and GSH homeostasis during endotoxemia in mice'}, {'document': ["Chorismate is the end-product of the shikimate pathway for biosynthesis of carbocyclic aromatic compounds in plants, bacteria, fungi, and some parasites.  Anthranilate synthase (AS), 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate synthase (ADCS), and isochorismate synthase (IS) are homologous enzymes that carry out the initial transformations on chorismate in the biosynthesis of tryptophan, p-aminobenzoate, and enterobactin, respectively, and are expected to share a common mechanism.  Poor binding to ADCS of two potential transition state analogues for addition of a nucleophile to C6 of chorismate implies that it, like AS and IS, initiates reaction by addition of a nucleophile to C2.  Molecular modeling based on the X-ray structures of AS and ADCS suggests that the active site residue K274 is the nucleophile employed by ADCS to initiate the reaction, forming a covalent intermediate.  The K274A and K274R mutants were shown to have 265- and 640-fold reduced k(cat) values when PabA (the cognate amidotransferase) + glutamine are used as the nitrogen source.  Under conditions of saturating chorismate and NH(4)(+), ADCS and the K274A mutant have identical k(cat) values, suggesting the participation of NH(4)(+) as a rescue agent.  Such participation was confirmed by the buildup of 2-amino-2-deoxyisochorismate in the reactions of the K274A mutant but not ADCS, when either NH(4)(+) or PabA + glutamine is used as the nitrogen source.  Additionally, the inclusion of ethylamine in the reactions of K274A yields the N-ethyl derivative of 2-amino-2-deoxyisochorismate.  A unifying mechanism for AS, ADCS, and IS entailing nucleophile addition to C2 of chorismate in an S(N)2' ' process is proposed."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['shikimate pathway', 'biosynthesis of carbocyclic aromatic compounds', 'Anthranilate synthase', 'AS', 'isochorismate synthase', 'IS', 'initiates reaction', 'Molecular modeling', 'nucleophile addition to C2'], 'material': ['Chorismate', 'bacteria', 'fungi', 'parasites', '4-amino-4-deoxychorismate', 'ADCS', 'chorismate', 'tryptophan', 'p-aminobenzoate', 'enterobactin', 'ADCS', 'transition state analogues', 'chorismate', 'AS', 'IS', 'X-ray', 'AS', 'ADCS', 'ADCS', 'covalent intermediate', 'K274A and K274R mutants', 'PabA', 'cognate amidotransferase', 'glutamine', 'nitrogen source', 'chorismate', 'NH(4)(+', 'ADCS', 'K274A mutant', 'NH(4)(+)', '2-amino-2-deoxyisochorismate', 'ADCS', 'NH(4)(+)', 'PabA', 'glutamine', 'nitrogen source', 'ethylamine', 'N-ethyl derivative of 2-amino-2-deoxyisochorismate', 'AS', 'ADCS', 'chorismate', "S(N)2'"]}], 'authors': 'Rossi Franca; Han Qian; Li Junsuo; Li Jianyong; Rizzi Menico', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Rheumatology ', 'title': 'Ultrastructural damage to heart tissue from repeated oral exposure to yessotoxin resolves in 3 months'}, {'document': ['OBJECTIVE:  To evaluate the safety of IDN-6556, a novel anti-apoptotic pan-caspase inhibitor, administered in single and multiple ascending doses in normal volunteers and patients with hepatic dysfunction.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  IDN-6556 was administered as a 30-minute intravenous infusion in rising doses to 3 groups: Group A, normal volunteers, given as a single infusion, Group B, normal volunteers, given q.i.d. for 7 days, Group C, patients with hepatic impairment (elevated transaminases, alanine transaminase, ALT and aspartate transaminase, AST), given q.i.d. for 7 days.  RESULTS:  The drug was well tolerated up to 10 mg/kg/infusion for a single dose, and 1.5 mg/kg/infusion q.i.d. for 7 days, with the dose-limiting adverse event of phlebitis or inflammation at the site of the infusion.  This toxicity was predicted from animal studies.  Clinically and statistically meaningful dose-related falls in transaminases were seen in all but 1 of the hepatic impaired patients.  Two-way ANOVA analyses of the changes for all the IDN-6556 groups combined versus placebo were: ALT absolute change: p < 0.0001 and % change: p = 0.012, AST absolute and % changes: p < 0.0001.  After discontinuation of the drug (after 7 days of dosing), the transaminases rapidly returned to the pre-treatment levels.  CONCLUSIONS:  Following intravenous administration of a novel anti-apoptotic caspase inhibitor, adverse events were mild-to-moderate in severity, resolved in a few days and did not result in any subject terminating treatment prematurely.  The effects in hepatic impaired patients appear to be consistent with both the administration and subsequent abrupt withdrawal of an effective hepatoprotective drug that delays cell death in hepatocytes.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['evaluate the safety of'], 'process': ['hepatic dysfunction', '30-minute intravenous infusion', 'single infusion', 'AST', 'toxicity', 'animal studies', 'falls in transaminases', 'Two-way ANOVA analyses', 'intravenous administration', 'administration', 'delays cell death in hepatocytes'], 'material': ['IDN-6556', 'anti-apoptotic pan-caspase inhibitor', 'IDN-6556 was administered', 'normal volunteers', 'normal volunteers', 'patients with hepatic impairment', 'elevated transaminases', 'alanine transaminase', 'ALT', 'hepatic impaired patients', 'IDN-6556 groups', 'placebo', 'ALT', 'AST', 'novel anti-apoptotic caspase inhibitor', 'hepatic impaired patients', 'hepatoprotective drug']}], 'authors': 'Rizos, Evangelos; Bairaktari, Eleni; Ganotakis, Emmanouel; Tsimihodimos, Vasilios; Mikhailidis, Dimitri P.; Elisaf, Moses', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Experimental gerontology ', 'title': 'Changes in S-adenosylmethionine and GSH homeostasis during endotoxemia in mice'}, {'document': ['A PCR was developed for the detection of Escherichia coli O157 based on the rfbE O-antigen synthesis genes.  A 479-bp PCR product was amplified specifically from E. coli O157 in cell lysates containing 200 or 2 CFU following crude DNA extraction.  The PCR detected < 1 CFU of E. coli O157 per ml in raw milk following enrichment.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['detection of Escherichia coli O157'], 'process': ['PCR', 'crude DNA extraction', 'PCR', 'enrichment'], 'material': ['rfbE O-antigen synthesis genes', '479-bp PCR product', 'cell lysates', 'raw milk']}], 'authors': 'Yang Shaolong; Zhou Mian; Fowler Dale E; Wang Ping', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'The Arabidopsis her1 mutant implicates GABA in E-2-hexenal responsiveness'}, {'document': ['Enzyme modulation by sublethal concns. of cypermethrin, a synthetic pyrethroid, was examd. in the heart, liver, and kidneys of C. carpio.  The activity of GOT, GPT, and LDH showed marginal changes over that of their control values.  The above difference might be due to the cumulative toxic effect of cypermethrin.  The alteration in transaminases and dehydrogenase activity of pesticide-treated fish may be due to severe cellular damage leading to the release of these enzymes and impaired carbohydrate and protein metab.  The probable reasons governing the facts are discussed in light of previous literature.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Enzyme modulation'], 'process': ['alteration in transaminases and dehydrogenase activity', 'severe cellular damage', 'release of these enzymes'], 'material': ['cypermethrin', 'synthetic pyrethroid', 'C. carpio', 'GOT', 'GPT', 'LDH', 'cypermethrin', 'pesticide-treated fish', 'impaired carbohydrate and protein metab']}], 'authors': 'Han Q; Fang J; Li J', 'DOI': '10.1177/107424840200700404', 'journal': 'Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology and Therapeutics ', 'title': 'Influence of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase polymorphisms on efficacy and toxicity of methotrexate in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis'}, {'document': ['We investigated the effects of once-daily oral administration of 10 mg/kg ursodeoxycholic acid (generic name, ursodiol) on elevated serum enzyme activities, bilirubin, cholesterol, bile acids and symptoms in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis.  A 30-mo, open-label, pilot trial was designed to cover four periods: (a) 3 mo of pretreatment observation (period 1), (b) 6 mo on ursodiol (period 2), (c) 3 mo withdrawal of treatment (period 3) and (d) 18 mo of extended retreatment (period 4).  Diagnosis was confirmed by cholangiography and liver biopsy specimens.  We enrolled 12 patients with persistently elevated pretreatment alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase levels (at least twice the upper limit of normal), and observed them for a median of 37 mo.  Significant reductions in serum total cholesterol levels and in serum enzyme activities indicating cholestasis and hepatocellular injury occurred during ursodiol treatment in both treatment periods 2 and 4 and relapsed with treatment interruption in period 3.  Elevated serum bilirubin and symptoms of disabling fatigue, pruritus and diarrhea were improved by ursodiol.  Improvements have continued after 2 yr of treatment in 10 patients (1 patient had a transplantation after he relapsed on withdrawal of ursodiol therapy; another died of postoperative complications of colon resection for carcinoma).  No other cases of clinical deterioration were observed in the retreatment period.  The longer term reductions of alkaline phosphatase, transaminases, bilirubin and cholesterol after 2 yr of treatment were even greater than the initial reductions after 6 mo of treatment.  These results justify initiation of larger, controlled clinical trials, with serial morphological evaluations of the liver and biliary tree.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['colon resection', 'clinical deterioration'], 'process': ['reductions in serum total cholesterol levels', 'cholestasis', 'hepatocellular injury', 'treatment interruption', 'transplantation', 'ursodiol therapy', 'reductions of'], 'material': ['ursodeoxycholic', 'ursodiol', 'elevated serum enzyme activities', 'bilirubin', 'cholesterol', 'bile', 'acids', 'primary sclerosing cholangitis', 'ursodiol', 'cholangiography', 'liver biopsy specimens', 'serum enzyme activities', 'ursodiol', 'Elevated serum bilirubin', 'symptoms of disabling fatigue', 'ursodiol', 'alkaline phosphatase', 'transaminases', 'bilirubin', 'cholesterol', 'serial morphological evaluations']}], 'authors': 'Hubbard B K; Thomas M G; Walsh C T', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Critical care medicine ', 'title': 'Administration of estradiol and progesterone modulate the activities of antioxidant enzyme and aminotransferases in naturally menopausal rats'}, {'document': ["We have previously reported the isolation of a genomic clone encoding human liver-specific peroxisomal alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT, EC 2.6.1.44), the deficient enzyme in primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) (P.  E.  Purdue, Y.  Takada, and C.  J.  Danpure, J.  Cell Biol. 111: 2341-2351, 1990).  This clone has now been characterized, revealing that the coding sequence is distributed among 11 exons covering 10 kb.  The nucleotide sequences of each exon have been determined, confirming that this clone corresponds to previously characterized AGT cDNA (Y.  Takada, N.  Kaneko, H.  Esumi, P.  E.  Purdue, and C.  J.  Danpure, Biochem.  J. 268: 517-520, 1990).  In addition, to provide sequence data for the design of exon-specific PCR primers, the intron sequences immediately flanking each exon have been determined.  Furthermore, in an attempt to identify putative transcriptional control sequences we have determined the sequence of 1.25 kb directly upstream of the cDNA 5' end.  The results of genomic Southern blotting indicate that human AGT is probably encoded by a single copy gene, and a combination of in situ hybridization and PCR analysis of rodent/human somatic cell hybrids suggests that this gene is located on chromosome 2q36-q37.  The gene symbol AGXT has been assigned for this locus."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['isolation of a genomic clone', 'human liver-specific peroxisomal alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'design of exon-specific PCR primers', 'identify putative transcriptional control sequences'], 'process': ['AGT', 'genomic Southern blotting', 'in situ hybridization', 'PCR analysis'], 'material': ['deficient enzyme', 'primary hyperoxaluria', 'PH1', 'AGT cDNA', 'sequence data', 'intron sequences', 'human AGT', 'single copy gene', 'rodent/human somatic cell hybrids', 'AGXT']}], 'authors': 'Akrivakis, Konstantin; Schmid, Peter; Flath, Bernd; Schweigert, Markus; Sezer, Orhan; Mergenthaler, Hans-Gunther; Possinger, Kurt', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Crystal structure of human kynurenine aminotransferase I'}, {'document': ['L-Glutamine:D-fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase (glucosamine synthetase) has been purified to homogeneity from Escherichia coli.  A subunit molecular weight of 70,800 was estimated by gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate.  Pure glucosamine synthetase did not exhibit detectable NH3-dependent activity and did not catalyze the reverse reaction, as reported for more impure preparations [Gosh, S., Blumenthal, H.  J., Davidson, E., & Roseman, S. (1960) J.  Biol.  Chem. 235, 1265].  The enzyme has a Km of 2 mM for fructose 6-phosphate, a Km of 0.4 mM for glutamine, and a turnover number of 1140 min-1.  The amino-terminal sequence confirmed the identification of residues 2-26 of the translated E. coli glmS sequence [Walker, J.  E., Gay, J., Saraste, M., & Eberle, N. (1984) Biochem.  J. 224, 799].  Methionine-1 is therefore removed by processing in vivo, leaving cysteine as the NH2-terminal residue.  The enzyme was inactivated by the glutamine analogue 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine (DON) and by iodoacetamide.  Glucosamine synthetase exhibited half-of-the-sites reactivity when incubated with DON in the absence of fructose 6-phosphate.  In its presence, inactivation with [6-14C]DON was accompanied by incorporation of 1 equiv of inhibitor per enzyme subunit.  From this behavior, a dimeric structure was tentatively assigned to the native enzyme.  The site of reaction with DON was the NH2-terminal cysteine residue as shown by Edman degradation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Biochem.  '], 'process': ['glucosamine synthetase', 'gel electrophoresis', 'reverse reaction', 'processing', 'inactivation', 'Edman degradation'], 'material': ['L-Glutamine', ':D-fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase', 'sodium dodecyl sulfate', 'glucosamine synthetase', 'fructose 6-phosphate', 'glutamine', 'amino-terminal sequence', 'E. coli glmS sequence', 'cysteine', 'NH2-terminal residue', 'glutamine analogue', '6-diazo-5-oxo', 'DON', 'iodoacetamide', 'Glucosamine synthetase', 'DON', 'fructose 6-phosphate', '[6-14C]DON was', 'inhibitor', 'enzyme subunit', 'native enzyme', 'DON', 'NH2-terminal cysteine residue']}], 'authors': 'De la Torre, Fernando R.; Salibian, Alfredo; Ferrari, Lucrecia', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Chemistry & biology ', 'title': 'Effect of ciprofibrate on lipoproteins, fibrinogen, renal function, and hepatic enzymes'}, {'document': ['The isolation and characterization of a cDNA clone for the mRNA of human ornithine aminotransferase (OATase; ornithine-oxo-acid aminotransferase; L-ornithine:2-oxo-acid aminotransferase, EC 2.6.1.13), a nonabundant mitochondrial matrix enzyme that is severely deficient in a hereditary chorioretinal degenerative disease (gyrate atrophy), is described.  Human liver, retina, and retinoblastoma (Y79) mRNAs were prepared and tested for the OATase mRNA content by in vitro translation, immunoprecipitation, and NaDodSO4/PAGE.  The retinoblastoma cells were found to be expressing this enzyme at a relatively high level.  The primary translation product of the OATase mRNA is larger than the pure OATase protein on NaDodSO4/PAGE by approximately equal to 4 kDa, suggesting a precursor protein. lambda gt11 cDNA libraries were prepared from the human mRNAs, and the recombinant clones were immunoscreened as plaques with two different preparations of rabbit anti-human OATase antibodies.  A clone (lambda gtRB315) was isolated from the retinoblastoma library that reacts with both of the antibody preparations, and the DNA sequence of its 2.1-kilobase-pair cDNA insert was obtained.  An open reading frame consisting of 1371 nucleotides is present in the sequence, and a putative translational initiation methionine codon is identified at position 55.  A putative leader sequence consisting of 32 amino acid residues is identified, resulting in a precursor protein of 439 amino acid residues and a molecular mass of 48,534 Da and a mature protein of 407 residues and 45,136 Da.  The amino acid sequences of seven tryptic peptides (115 amino acid residues) of the pure human OATase were obtained by microsequencing.  When the tryptic peptide and cDNA-derived amino acid sequences were compared, homologies in 111 of 115 residues, including a match of 20 consecutive residues, were observed.  An RNA blot hybridization of 32P-labeled OATase cDNA to normal human retina and retinoblastoma mRNAs demonstrated an OATase mRNA species of approximately equal to 2.2 kilobases.  The level of OATase mRNA in the normal human retina is approximately equal to 1/100th the level of rhodopsin mRNA and 1/5th to 1/10th the level present in the retinoblastoma cells.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['isolation and characterization of a cDNA clone', 'Human liver,', 'OATase mRNA content'], 'process': ['human ornithine aminotransferase', 'hereditary chorioretinal degenerative disease', 'gyrate atrophy', 'in vitro translation', 'immunoprecipitation', 'NaDodSO4', '/PAGE', 'NaDodSO4/PAGE', 'antibody preparations', 'microsequencing', 'homologies', 'RNA blot hybridization'], 'material': ['OATase', 'ornithine-oxo-acid aminotransferase', 'L-ornithine:2-oxo-acid aminotransferase', 'retina', 'retinoblastoma', 'Y79', 'retinoblastoma cells', 'primary translation product', 'OATase mRNA', 'OATase protein', 'precursor protein', 'lambda gt11 cDNA libraries', 'human mRNAs', 'recombinant clones', 'two different preparations of rabbit anti-human OATase antibodies', 'lambda gtRB315', 'retinoblastoma library', 'open reading frame', '1371 nucleotides', 'putative leader sequence', '32 amino acid residues', 'precursor protein', '439 amino acid residues', 'mature protein', '407 residues and 45,136 Da', 'amino acid sequences', 'tryptic peptides', 'human OATase', 'tryptic peptide', 'cDNA-derived amino acid sequences', '32P-labeled OATase', 'normal human retina', 'retinoblastoma mRNAs', 'OATase mRNA species', 'OATase mRNA', 'normal human retina', 'rhodopsin mRNA', 'retinoblastoma cells']}], 'authors': 'Maggio-Hall L A; Escalante-Semerena J C', 'DOI': '10.1097/00001813-199907000-00003', 'journal': 'Anti-Cancer Drugs ', 'title': 'Mechanisms of the beneficial effect of adrenomedullin and adrenomedullin-binding protein-1 in sepsis: down-regulation of proinflammatory cytokines'}, {'document': ['Cysteine aminotransferase has been purified over 300-fold from rat liver mitochondria.  Transamination between L-cysteine and 2-oxoglutarate, and the reverse reaction, were observed to be catalyzed by the purified enzyme but inhibited by L-aspartate.  The enzyme also catalyzed transamination of alanine, 3-sulfinic acid, aspartic acid, and cysteic acid.  A new reaction assay method was devised, contributing an indication that mitochondrial cysteine aminotransferase is identical to mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase.  The latter apparently catalyzed 3 transamination reactions in the cysteine degradation process within mitochondria.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Transamination', 'reverse reaction', 'catalyzed transamination of', 'reaction assay method', 'transamination reactions', 'cysteine degradation process'], 'material': ['Cysteine aminotransferase', 'rat liver mitochondria', 'L-cysteine', '2-oxoglutarate', 'enzyme', 'L-aspartate', 'enzyme', 'alanine', '3-sulfinic acid', 'aspartic', 'acid', 'cysteic', 'mitochondrial cysteine aminotransferase', 'mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase', 'mitochondria']}], 'authors': 'Fong T L; Valinluck B; Govindarajan S; Charboneau F; Adkins R H; Redeker A G', 'DOI': '10.1002/(SICI)1522-7278(199907)14:3<313::AID-TOX4>3.0.CO;2-J', 'journal': 'Environmental Toxicology ', 'title': 'Kynurenine aminotransferase and glutamine transaminase K of Escherichia coli: identity with aspartate aminotransferase'}, {'document': ['β,β-Dichloro- and β,β,β-trifluoroalanine irreversibly inactivate a no. of pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes which catalyze β- or γ-elimination reactions.  The inactivation is time dependent and the rate of inactivation is 1st order in enzyme concn.  This suggests that inactivation is due to covalent modification of the enzyme by a species generated at the active site from the polyhaloalanine (i.e., suicide inactivation).  Monohaloalanines are substrates and do not inactivate.  For γ-cystathionase, covalent and stoichiometric attachment of β,β,β-trifluoroalanine-1-14C was shown.  It is proposed that the mechanism of inactivation involves Schiff base formation between inactivator and enzyme-bound pyridoxal and subsequent elimination of HCl from dichloroalanine or HF from trifluoroalanine.  This results in the formation of a β-halo-α,β unsatd. imine, an activated Michael acceptor.  Michael addition of a nucleophile at the active site leads to covalent labeling of the enzyme and inactivation.  Alanine racemase is also inactivated by the 2 polyhaloalanines.  Glutamate-pyruvate and glutamate-oxalocetate transaminases are inactivated by monohaloalanines but not by polyhaloalanines.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['inactivation', 'inactivation', 'inactivation', 'covalent modification', 'suicide inactivation', 'inactivation', 'Schiff base formation', 'elimination of HCl from dichloroalanine', 'Michael addition', 'covalent labeling', 'inactivation'], 'material': ['β,β-Dichloro-', 'β,β,β-trifluoroalanine', 'pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes', 'β- or γ-elimination reactions', 'enzyme concn', 'a species', 'polyhaloalanine', 'Monohaloalanines', 'γ-cystathionase', 'β,β,β-trifluoroalanine-1-14C', 'inactivator', 'enzyme-bound pyridoxal', 'HF', 'β-halo-α,β unsatd', 'imine', 'activated Michael acceptor', 'nucleophile', 'enzyme', 'Alanine racemase', 'Glutamate-pyruvate', 'glutamate-oxalocetate transaminases', 'monohaloalanines', 'polyhaloalanines']}], 'authors': 'Botella J R; Arteca J M; Schlagnhaufer C D; Arteca R N; Phillips A T', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Biosynthesis of L-p-hydroxyphenylglycine, a non-proteinogenic amino acid constituent of peptide antibiotics'}, {'document': ['A glutamine isoenzyme was purified from the sol. portion of rat kidney homogenate; this enzyme, designated as kidney glutamine transaminase K, has different catalytic and phys. properties from those previously found for the purified sol. glutamine transaminase of rat liver (liver glutamine transaminase L).  Liver glutamine transaminase L was highly active toward methionine, glyoxylate, pyruvate, and several other substrates; kidney glutamine transaminase K was very active toward methionine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, and the α-keto acid analogs of these amino acids and exhibited relatively little activity toward glyoxylate and pyruvate.  Evidence was obtained that the K and L forms of glutamine transaminase are both present in liver and kidney.  In addn., both forms of these enzymes are present in these tissues as mitochondrial as well as sol. isozymes.  There are, therefore, ≥4 sep. glutamine-α-keto acid transaminases in liver as well as kidney.  Rat liver ω-amidase also occurs in both sol. and mitochondrial isozymic forms.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['sol. glutamine transaminase', 'glutamine transaminase', 'Rat liver ω-amidase'], 'material': ['glutamine isoenzyme', 'sol. portion', 'rat kidney homogenate', 'kidney glutamine transaminase', 'liver glutamine transaminase', 'Liver glutamine transaminase', 'methionine', 'glyoxylate', 'pyruvate', 'kidney glutamine transaminase', 'methionine', 'phenylalanine', 'tyrosine', 'α-keto acid analogs', 'glyoxylate', 'pyruvate', 'K and L forms', 'liver and kidney', 'sol. isozymes', 'sol. and mitochondrial isozymic forms']}], 'authors': 'Oberhansli T; Dfago G; Haas D', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Gastroenterology ', 'title': 'Prolonged infusion of gemcitabine in stage IV breast cancer: a phase I study'}, {'document': ['Two glucosamine (GCA)-requiring mutants have been isolated which grow on glucose minimal or nutrient sporulation medium only in the presence of either GCA or acetyl-GCA.  They lack the l-glutamine-d-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.13), which is repressible by GCA and whose activity in the standard strain decreases after cessation of growth.  But the mutants can grow on GCA as sole carbon and ammonia source, because GCA induces the synthesis of 2-amino-2-deoxy-d-glucose-6-phosphate ketol-isomerase (deaminating) (EC 5.3.1.10).  With respect to sporulation, the GCA-requiring mutants are in a serious dilemma, as GCA represses the onset of massive sporulation and yet a small amount of GCA-6-phosphate derivatives is necessary to allow sporulation.  When GCA is continuously provided in small quantities, sporelike particles are produced which contain little or no spore cortex but a normal spore coat.  Apparently, GCA derivatives are needed especially for cortex formation.  Many of the sporelike particles can produce colonies after octanol, but not after heat treatment.  When they are purified by treatment with lysozyme and sodium dodecylsulfate, they do not show the decrease in optical density at 600 nm typical of germination nor do they produce offspring.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['sporulation'], 'process': ['grow on', 'synthesis of 2-amino-2-deoxy-d-glucose-6-phosphate ketol-isomerase', 'deaminating', 'sporulation', 'cortex formation', 'heat treatment', 'germination'], 'material': ['glucosamine', 'glucose minimal', 'nutrient sporulation medium', 'GCA', 'acetyl-GCA', 'l-glutamine-d-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase', 'GCA', 'standard strain', 'GCA', 'GCA', 'GCA-requiring mutants', 'GCA', 'GCA-6-phosphate derivatives', 'GCA', 'sporelike particles', 'spore cortex', 'spore coat', 'GCA derivatives', 'sporelike particles', 'octanol', 'lysozyme', 'sodium dodecylsulfate']}], 'authors': 'Watzele G; Tanner W', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Plant molecular biology ', 'title': 'Enzyme activities as biomarkers of freshwater pollution: responses of fish branchial (Na+K)-ATPase and liver transaminases'}, {'document': ['The present study aims to clarify the effects of sex, age, body mass index (BMI), and puberty on transaminase serum levels in children and adolescents and to provide new age- and sex-related percentiles for alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT).  Venous blood and anthropometric data were collected from 4,126 cases.  Excluded were cases of participants with potential hepatotoxic medication, with evidence of potential illness at the time of blood sampling and non-normal BMI (BMI <10th or >90th).  The resulting data (N = 3,131 cases) were used for the calculations of ALT, AST, and GGT percentiles.  Age- and sex-related reference intervals were established by using an LMS method of Cole-type method.  Serum levels of transaminases follow age-specific patterns and relate to the onset of puberty.  This observation is more pronounced in girls than in boys.  ALT percentiles showed similar-shaped patterns in both sexes.  Multivariate regression confirmed significant effects of puberty and BMI-SDS (β = 2.21) on ALT.  Surprisingly, AST serum levels were negatively influenced by age (β = -1.42) and BMI-SDS (β = -0.15).  GGT percentiles revealed significant sex-specific differences, correlated positively with age (β = 0.37) and showed significant association with BMI-SDS (β = 1.16).  CONCLUSION:  Current reference values of ALT, AST, and GGT serum levels were calculated for children between 11 months and 16.0 years, using modern analytical and statistical methods.  This study extends the current knowledge about transaminases by revealing influences of age, sex, BMI, and puberty on serum concentrations of all three parameters and has for these parameters one of the largest sample sizes published so far. (Hepatology 2017).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['clarify the effects of sex, age,', 'transaminase serum levels', 'calculations of', 'Hepatology 2017)'], 'process': ['AST', 'GGT', 'blood sampling', 'LMS method of Cole-type method', 'Multivariate regression', 'serum levels', 'serum levels', 'extends the current knowledge about transaminases'], 'material': ['alanine aminotransferase', 'ALT', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'γ-glutamyltransferase', 'Venous blood and anthropometric data', 'hepatotoxic medication', 'ALT', 'AST', 'GGT', 'Serum levels of transaminases', 'girls', 'boys', 'ALT', 'AST', 'GGT', 'ALT', 'AST', 'GGT']}], 'authors': 'Danpure C J; Jennings P R; Watts R W', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of general microbiology ', 'title': 'In vitro synthesis of the nucleotide loop of cobalamin by Salmonella typhimurium enzymes'}, {'document': ["Putrescine transaminase (pATA; EC 2.6.1.82) catalyzes the transfer of an amino group from terminal diamine donor mols. to keto acid acceptors by using pyridoxal-5'-phosphate as a cofactor.  The ygjG genes from Escherichia coli K12, Bacillus megaterium, and Bacillus mycoides were successfully cloned and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) cells.  The three putrescine transaminases were all shown to prefer diaminoalkanes as substrates and thereby generated cyclic imines from the ω-amino aldehyde intermediates.  The addn. of a mild chem. reducing agent rapidly reduced the imine intermediate in situ to furnish a range of N-heterocycle products.  We applied pATA in a biomimetic synthesis of 2,3-dihydro-1H-indolizinium-contg. targets, notably the bioactive alkaloid ficuseptine."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Putrescine transaminase', 'pATA', 'transfer of an amino group', 'putrescine transaminases', 'addn', 'reduced the imine intermediate', 'pATA', 'biomimetic synthesis'], 'material': ['terminal diamine donor mols', 'keto acid acceptors', "pyridoxal-5'-phosphate as a cofactor", 'ygjG genes', 'Escherichia coli', 'Bacillus megaterium', 'Bacillus mycoides', 'cyclic imines', 'ω-amino aldehyde intermediates', 'mild chem. reducing agent', 'N-heterocycle products', '2,3-dihydro-1H-indolizinium-contg. targets', 'bioactive alkaloid', 'ficuseptine']}], 'authors': 'Bajic, Marijan; Plazl, Igor; Stloukal, Radek; Znidarsic-Plazl, Polona', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Short-term prednisone therapy affects aminotransferase activity and hepatitis C virus RNA levels in chronic hepatitis C'}, {'document': ['Background.  Protection against dengue requires immunity against all 4 serotypes of dengue virus (DENV).  Exptl. challenge may be useful in evaluating vaccine-induced immunity.  Methods. Ten subjects previously vaccinated with a live attenuated tetravalent dengue vaccine (TDV) and 4 DENV-naive control subjects were challenged by s.c. inoculation of either 103 plaque-forming units (PFU) of DENV-1 or 105 PFU of DENV-3.  Two addnl. subjects who did not develop DENV-3 neutralizing antibody (NAb) from TDV were revaccinated with 104 PFU of live attenuated DENV-3 vaccine to evaluate memory response.  Results. All 5 TDV recipients were protected against DENV-1 challenge.  Of the 5 TDV recipients challenged with DENV-3, 2 were protected.  All DENV-3-challenge subjects who developed viremia also developed elevated liver enzyme levels, and 2 had values that were >10 times greater than normal.  Of the 2 subjects revaccinated with DENV-3 vaccine, 1 showed a secondary response to DENV-2, while neither showed such response to DENV-3.  All 4 control subjects developed dengue fever from challenge.  Protection was assocd. with presence of NAb, although 1 subject was protected despite a lack of measurable NAb at the time of DENV-1 challenge.  Conclusions.  Vaccination with TDV induced variable protection against s.c. challenge.  DENV-3 exptl. challenge was assocd. with transient but marked elevations of transaminases.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Exptl. challenge', 'evaluating vaccine-induced immunity'], 'process': ['NAb', 'memory response', 'secondary response', 'Vaccination', 'elevations of transaminases'], 'material': ['dengue virus', 'DENV', 'live attenuated tetravalent dengue vaccine', 'TDV', 'DENV-naive control subjects', '103 plaque-forming units', 'DENV-1', '105 PFU', 'DENV-3', 'DENV-3 neutralizing antibody', 'TDV', '104 PFU', 'live attenuated DENV-3 vaccine', 'DENV-3', 'DENV-3-challenge subjects', 'DENV-3 vaccine', 'DENV-2', 'DENV-3', 'control subjects', 'NAb', 'NAb', 'TDV']}], 'authors': 'Nagashima Hiroaki; Tanaka Kazuhiro; Sasayama Takashi; Irino Yasuhiro; Sato Naoko; Takeuchi Yukiko; Kyotani Katsusuke; Mukasa Akitake; Mizukawa Katsu; Sakata Junichi; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Lancet ', 'title': 'Identification and characterization of a full-length cDNA encoding for an auxin-induced 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase from etiolated mung bean hypocotyl segments and expression of its mRNA in response to indole-3-acetic acid'}, {'document': ['It has been recently shown that acute acetaminophen toxicity results in endoplasmic reticulum redox stress and an increase in cells with apoptotic phenotype in liver.  Since activation of effector caspases was absent, the relevance of caspase-independent mechanisms in acetaminophen-induced programmed cell death was investigated.  BGP-15, a drug with known protective actions in conditions involving redox imbalance, has been co-administered with a single sublethal dose of acetaminophen.  Proapoptotic events and outcome of the injury were investigated.  ER redox alterations and early ER-stress-related signaling events induced by acetaminophen, such as ER glutathione depletion, phosphorylation of eIF2alpha and JNK and induction of the transcription factor GADD153, were not counteracted by co-treatment with BGP-15.  However, BGP-15 prevented AIF mitochondria-to-nucleus translocation and mitochondrial depolarization.  BGP-15 co-treatment attenuated the rate of acetaminophen-induced cell death as assessed by apoptotic index and enzyme serum release.  These results reaffirm that acute acetaminophen toxicity involves oxidative stress-induced caspase-independent cell death.  In addition, pharmacological inhibition of AIF translocation may effectively protect against or at least delay acetaminophen-induced programmed cell death.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['relevance of caspase-independent mechanisms', 'induced programmed cell death', 'acute acetaminophen toxicity'], 'process': ['acute acetaminophen toxicity', 'endoplasmic reticulum redox stress', 'activation of effector caspases', 'redox imbalance', 'ER redox alterations', 'ER-stress-related signaling events', 'ER glutathione depletion', 'phosphorylation of eIF2alpha', 'induction of the transcription factor', 'mitochondria-to-nucleus translocation', 'mitochondrial depolarization', 'enzyme serum release', 'oxidative stress', 'pharmacological inhibition of AIF translocation', 'programmed cell death'], 'material': ['acetaminophen', 'BGP-15', 'a single sublethal dose', 'acetaminophen', 'acetaminophen', 'GADD153', 'BGP-15', 'BGP-15', 'AIF', 'BGP-15', 'acetaminophen', 'acetaminophen']}], 'authors': 'Miyata Non; Steffen Janos; Johnson Meghan E; Fargue Sonia; Danpure Christopher J; Koehler Carla M', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.procbio.2016.09.021', 'journal': 'Process Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) synthesis in the biocontrol strain CHA0 of Pseudomonas fluorescens: role of tryptophan side chain oxidase'}, {'document': ['Pea plants incubated in 15N2 rapidly accumulated labeled gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) in the plant cytosol and in bacteroids of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae 3841.  Two pathways of GABA metabolism were identified in R. leguminosarum 3841.  In the first, glutamate is formed by GABA aminotransferase (GabT), transferring the amino group from GABA to 2-oxoglutarate.  In the second, alanine is formed by two omega-aminotransferases (OpaA and OpaB), transferring the amino group from GABA to pyruvate.  While the gabT mutant and the gabT opaA double mutant grew on GABA as a nitrogen source, the final triple mutant did not.  The semialdehyde released from GABA by transamination is oxidized by succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (GabD).  Five of six potential GabD proteins in R. leguminosarum bv. viciae 3841 (GabD1, -D2, -D3, -D4, and -D5) were shown by expression analysis to have this activity.  However, only mutations of GabD1, GabD2, and GabD4 were required to prevent utilization of GABA as the sole nitrogen source in culture.  The specific enzyme activities of GabT, Opa, and GabD were highly elevated in bacteroids relative to cultured bacteria.  This was due to elevated expression of gabT, opaA, gabD1, and gabD2 in nodules.  Strains mutated in aminotransferase and succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenases (gabT, opaA, or opaB and gabD1, gabD2, or gabD4, respectively) that cannot use GABA in culture still fixed nitrogen on plants.  While GABA catabolism alone is not essential for N2 fixation in bacteroids, it may have a role in energy generation and in bypassing the decarboxylating arm of the tricarboxylic acid cycle.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['GABA metabolism', 'GABA aminotransferase', 'transferring the amino group from GABA', 'transamination', 'oxidized', 'expression analysis', 'mutations', 'elevated expression', 'fixed nitrogen on plants', 'GABA catabolism', 'N2 fixation', 'energy generation', 'bypassing the decarboxylating arm of the tricarboxylic acid cycle'], 'material': ['Pea plants', 'gamma-aminobutyrate', 'GABA', 'plant cytosol', 'bacteroids', 'R. leguminosarum 3841', 'glutamate', 'GabT', '2-oxoglutarate', 'alanine', 'omega-aminotransferases', 'OpaA', 'OpaB', 'GABA', 'pyruvate', 'gabT', 'gabT opaA double mutant', 'GABA', 'nitrogen source', 'triple mutant', 'semialdehyde', 'GABA', 'succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase', 'GabD', 'GabD proteins', 'R. leguminosarum bv', 'GabD1', 'GabD1', 'GabD2', 'GabD4', 'GABA', 'GabT', 'Opa', 'GabD', 'bacteroids', 'cultured bacteria', 'gabT', 'opaA', 'gabD1', 'gabD2', 'nodules', 'aminotransferase', 'succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenases', 'gabT', 'opaA', 'opaB', 'gabD1', 'gabD2', 'gabD4', 'GABA', 'bacteroids']}], 'authors': 'Fargue Sonia; Lewin Jackie; Rumsby Gill; Danpure Christopher J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Neuro-oncology ', 'title': 'Cloning of the glutamine:fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase gene from yeast. Pheromonal regulation of its transcription'}, {'document': ['Excessive ethanol intake induces severe tissue damage esp. in the liver through the generation of reactive oxygen species.  This study examd. the effects of virgin olive oil-rich diet on oxidative stress induced by chronic ethanol exposure in adult male Wistar rats (200-230 g).  The rats were treated i.p. with 35% ethanol soln. daily for 6 wk and were fed std. chow or diet with 5% virgin olive oil.  Ethanol induced severe liver toxicity as assessed by elevated blood serum transaminases.  The hepatic malondialdehyde level, indicator of lipid peroxidn., was also increased in ethanol-treated rats, whereas the hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, catalase) were decreased.  The activity of glutathione reductase remained unchanged.  Fatty acid compn. of the liver was also changed with ethanol intake.  The virgin olive oil intake during ethanol treatment led to higher antioxidant activity and decreased the liver toxicity, as reflected by decreased transaminase levels and hepatic lipid peroxidn.  The rats had better profile of the antioxidant system with normal glutathione peroxidase activity and increased superoxide dismutase and catalase activities.  Thus, dietary olive oil protected the rat liver from ethanol-induced oxidative damage by affecting the cellular redox potential.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['examd. the effects of virgin olive oil-rich diet', 'rats', 'severe liver toxicity'], 'process': ['Excessive ethanol intake', 'tissue damage', 'oxidative stress', 'chronic ethanol exposure', 'elevated blood serum transaminases', 'hepatic malondialdehyde level', 'lipid peroxidn', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'activity of', 'glutathione reductase', 'Fatty acid compn', 'ethanol intake', 'ethanol treatment', 'antioxidant', 'liver toxicity', 'decreased transaminase levels', 'hepatic lipid peroxidn', 'antioxidant system', 'glutathione peroxidase activity', 'superoxide dismutase and catalase activities', 'ethanol-induced oxidative damage'], 'material': ['reactive oxygen species', '35% ethanol soln', 'std. chow', 'diet with', '5% virgin olive oil', 'Ethanol', 'ethanol', 'hepatic antioxidant enzyme', 'superoxide', 'dismutase', 'catalase', 'virgin olive oil', 'rats', 'dietary olive oil', 'cellular redox potential']}], 'authors': 'Rehn, Gustav; Grey, Carl; Branneby, Cecilia; Lindberg, Lina; Adlercreutz, Patrick', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Enzymological diagnosis of primary hyperoxaluria type 1 by measurement of hepatic alanine: glyoxylate aminotransferase activity'}, {'document': ['PURPOSE OF REVIEW:  Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP), a chaperone for the biosynthesis of apolipoprotein B lipoproteins and CD1d, is a therapeutic candidate to decrease plasma lipids and to diminish inflammation.  MTP inhibition increases plasma transaminases and tissue lipids, and therefore new approaches are needed to avoid them.  RECENT FINDINGS:  Inositol requiring enzyme1beta has been identified as a novel intestine-specific regulator of MTP.  A new function of MTP in cholesterol ester biosynthesis has been reported.  The importance of the phospholipid transfer activity of MTP in the lipidation of apolipoprotein B and CD1d has been indicated.  Diurnal variations in MTP expression and its induction by food availability have been observed.  On the basis of these and other findings, we propose that upregulation of inositol requiring enzyme 1beta, a combined reduction of cellular free cholesterol or triglyceride or both and MTP activity, specific inhibition of phospholipid or triglyceride transfer activities, and targeting of apolipoprotein B-MTP protein-protein interactions might be pursued to avoid some of the side effects associated with the inhibition of triglyceride transfer activity of MTP.  We further speculate that short-lived MTP antagonists may be useful in controlling plasma and tissue lipids and in avoiding steatosis.  SUMMARY:  We have highlighted the importance of addressing the causal relationship between MTP inhibition and aberrant elevations in plasma liver enzymes.  The proposed approaches may show that MTP targeting is a viable approach to lower plasma lipids.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['decrease plasma lipids', 'specific inhibition of phospholipid or triglyceride transfer activities', 'controlling plasma and tissue lipids', 'lower plasma lipids'], 'process': ['chaperone for the', 'biosynthesis of apolipoprotein B lipoproteins and CD1d', 'diminish inflammation', 'MTP inhibition', 'Inositol requiring enzyme1beta', 'cholesterol ester biosynthesis', 'phospholipid transfer activity', 'food availability', 'upregulation of inositol requiring enzyme 1beta', 'targeting of apolipoprotein B-MTP protein-protein interactions', 'inhibition of triglyceride transfer activity', 'avoiding steatosis', 'MTP inhibition', 'elevations in plasma liver enzymes', 'MTP targeting'], 'material': ['Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'cellular free cholesterol', 'MTP', 'MTP', 'short-lived MTP antagonists']}], 'authors': "Karlsson Magnus; Jensen Pernille R; in 't Zandt Rene; Gisselsson Anna; Hansson Georg; Duus Jens O; Meier Sebastian; Lerche Mathilde H", 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Development of a miniaturized packed bed reactor with ω-transaminase immobilized in LentiKats'}, {'document': ['Human kynurenine aminotransferase II (hKAT-II) efficiently catalyzes the transamination of knunrenine to kynurenic acid (KYNA).  KYNA is the only known endogenous antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and is also an antagonist of 7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.  Abnormal concentrations of brain KYNA have been implicated in the pathogenesis and development of several neurological and psychiatric diseases in humans.  Consequently, enzymes involved in the production of brain KYNA have been considered potential regulatory targets.  In this article, we report a 2.16 A crystal structure of hKAT-II and a 1.95 A structure of its complex with kynurenine.  The protein architecture of hKAT-II reveals that it belongs to the fold-type I pyridoxal 5-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzymes.  In comparison with all subclasses of fold-type I-PLP-dependent enzymes, we propose that hKAT-II represents a novel subclass in the fold-type I enzymes because of the unique folding of its first 65 N-terminal residues.  This study provides a molecular basis for future effort in maintaining physiological concentrations of KYNA through molecular and biochemical regulation of hKAT-II.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pathogenesis and development of several neurological and psychiatric diseases', 'protein architecture', 'molecular basis for future effort'], 'process': ['antagonist of 7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors', 'crystal structure', 'molecular and biochemical regulation'], 'material': ['Human kynurenine', 'hKAT', 'II', 'knunrenine', 'kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'KYNA', 'endogenous antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate', 'brain KYNA', 'enzymes', 'hKAT', 'kynurenine', 'hKAT', 'fold-type I pyridoxal 5-phosphate', 'fold-type I-PLP-dependent enzymes', 'hKAT', 'fold-type I enzymes', 'KYNA', 'hKAT']}], 'authors': 'Jayaraman, Jayachitra; Veerappan, Muniappan; Namasivayam, Nalini', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.procbio.2012.04.013', 'journal': 'Process Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Diagnostic value of glutamate with 2-hydroxyglutarate in magnetic resonance spectroscopy for IDH1 mutant glioma'}, {'document': ["Human hepatic peroxisomal AGT (alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase) is a PLP (pyridoxal 5'-phosphate)-dependent enzyme whose deficiency causes primary hyperoxaluria Type I, a rare autosomal recessive disorder.  To acquire experimental evidence for the physiological function of AGT, the K(eq),(overall) of the reaction, the steady-state kinetic parameters of the forward and reverse reactions, and the pre-steady-state kinetics of the half-reactions of the PLP form of AGT with L-alanine or glycine and the PMP (pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate) form with pyruvate or glyoxylate have been measured.  The results indicate that the enzyme is highly specific for catalysing glyoxylate to glycine processing, thereby playing a key role in glyoxylate detoxification.  Analysis of the reaction course also reveals that PMP remains bound to the enzyme during the catalytic cycle and that the AGT-PMP complex displays a reactivity towards oxo acids higher than that of apoAGT in the presence of PMP.  These findings are tentatively related to possible subtle rearrangements at the active site also indicated by the putative binding mode of catalytic intermediates.  Additionally, the catalytic and spectroscopic features of the naturally occurring G82E variant have been analysed.  Although, like the wild-type, the G82E variant is able to bind 2 mol PLP/dimer, it exhibits a significant reduced affinity for PLP and even more for PMP compared with wild-type, and an altered conformational state of the bound PLP.  The striking molecular defect of the mutant, consisting in the dramatic decrease of the overall catalytic activity (approximately 0.1% of that of normal AGT), appears to be related to the inability to undergo an efficient transaldimination of the PLP form of the enzyme with amino acids as well as an efficient conversion of AGT-PMP into AGT-PLP.  Overall, careful biochemical analyses have allowed elucidation of the mechanism of action of AGT and the way in which the disease causing G82E mutation affects it."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Human hepatic peroxisomal AGT', 'glyoxylate detoxification', 'catalytic and spectroscopic features'], 'process': ['primary hyperoxaluria', 'steady-state kinetic parameters', 'forward and reverse reactions', 'glyoxylate to glycine processing', 'subtle rearrangements', 'biochemical analyses'], 'material': ['alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'PLP', "(pyridoxal 5'-phosphate)-dependent enzyme", 'AGT', 'PLP form', 'AGT', 'L-alanine', 'glycine', 'PMP', "pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate) form", 'pyruvate', 'glyoxylate', 'PMP', 'enzyme', 'AGT-PMP complex', 'oxo', 'apoAGT', 'PMP', 'catalytic intermediates', 'naturally occurring', 'G82E variant', 'G82E variant', 'PLP/dimer', 'PLP', 'PMP', 'PLP', 'AGT', 'PLP form', 'amino acids', 'AGT-PMP', 'AGT-PLP', 'AGT', 'disease causing G82E mutation']}], 'authors': "Loguercio Carmela; Federico Alessandro; Trappoliere Marco; Tuccillo Concetta; de Sio Ilario; Di Leva Agnese; Niosi Marco; D'Auria Mauro Valeriano; Capasso Rita; Del Vecchio Blanco Camillo", 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'International journal of cancer ', 'title': 'Pharmacologic rescue of an enzyme-trafficking defect in primary hyperoxaluria 1'}, {'document': ['BACKGROUND:  Definitive diagnosis of primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) requires analysis of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) activity in the liver.  We have previously shown that targeted screening for the 3 most common mutations in the AGXT gene (c.33_34insC, c.508G>A, and c.731T>C) can provide a molecular diagnosis in 34.5% of PH1 patients, eliminating the need for a liver biopsy.  Having reviewed the distribution of all AGXT mutations, we have evaluated a diagnostic strategy that uses selected exon sequencing for the molecular diagnosis of PH1.  METHODS:  We sequenced exons 1, 4, and 7 for 300 biopsy-confirmed PH1 patients and expressed the identified missense mutations in vitro.  RESULTS:  Our identification of at least 1 mutation in 224 patients (75%) and 2 mutations in 149 patients increased the diagnostic sensitivity to 50%.  We detected 29 kinds of sequence changes, 15 of which were novel.  Four of these mutations were in exon 1 (c.2_3delinsAT, c.30_32delCC, c.122G>A, c.126delG), 7 were in exon 4 (c.447_454delGCTGCTGT, c.449T>C, c.473C>T, c.481G>A, c.481G>T, c.497T>C, c.424-2A>G), and 4 were in exon 7 (c.725insT, c.737G>A, c.757T>C, c.776 + 1G>A).  The missense changes were associated with severely decreased AGT catalytic activity and negative immunoreactivity when expressed in vitro.  Missense mutation c.26C>A, previously described as a pathological mutation, had activity similar to that of the wild-type enzyme.  CONCLUSIONS:  Selective exon sequencing can allow a definitive diagnosis in 50% of PH1 patients.  The test offers a rapid turnaround time (15 days) with minimal risk to the patient.  Demonstration of the expression of missense changes is essential to demonstrate pathogenicity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Definitive diagnosis of primary hyperoxaluria', 'molecular diagnosis', 'molecular diagnosis of PH1', 'definitive diagnosis', 'Demonstration of the expression of missense changes', 'demonstrate pathogenicity'], 'process': ['alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'AGT) activity in the liver', 'targeted screening', 'liver biopsy', 'AGXT mutations', 'diagnostic strategy', 'selected exon sequencing', 'identification of at least 1 mutation', 'sequence changes', 'missense changes', 'Missense mutation', 'pathological mutation', 'Selective exon sequencing', 'rapid turnaround time'], 'material': ['AGXT gene', 'AGT', 'wild-type enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Danpure Christopher J', 'DOI': '10.1211/jpp.61.10.0016', 'journal': 'Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmacology ', 'title': 'Four of the most common mutations in primary hyperoxaluria type 1 unmask the cryptic mitochondrial targeting sequence of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase encoded by the polymorphic minor allele'}, {'document': ['Kynurenic acid (KYNA) is an endogenous metabolite in the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradation and is an antagonist at the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate as well as at the alpha 7 nicotinic cholinergic receptors.  In the brain tissue KYNA is synthesised from L-kynurenine by kynurenine aminotransferases (KAT) I and II.  A host of immune mediators influence tryptophan degradation.  In the present study, the levels of KYNA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum in a group of human subjects aged between 25 and 74 years were determined by using a high performance liquid chromatography method.  In CSF and serum KAT I and II activities were investigated by radioenzymatic assay, and the levels of beta(2)-microglobulin, a marker for cellular immune activation, were determined by ELISA.  The correlations between neurochemical and biological parameters were evaluated.  Two subject groups with significantly different ages, i.e. <50 years and >50 years, p < 0.001, showed statistically significantly different CSF KYNA levels, i.e. 2.84 +/- 0.16 fmol/microl vs. 4.09 +/- 0.14 fmol/microl, p < 0.001, respectively; but this difference was not seen in serum samples.  Interestingly, KYNA is synthesised in CSF principally by KAT I and not KAT II, however no relationship was found between enzyme activity and ageing.  A positive relationship between CSF KYNA levels and age of subjects indicates a 95% probability of elevated CSF KYNA with ageing (R = 0.6639, p = 0.0001).  KYNA levels significantly correlated with IgG and beta(2)-microglobulin levels (R = 0.5244, p = 0.0049; R = 0.4253, p = 0.043, respectively).  No correlation was found between other biological parameters in CSF or serum.  In summary, a positive relationship between the CSF KYNA level and ageing was found, and the data would suggest age-dependent increase of kynurenine metabolism in the CNS.  An enhancement of CSF IgG and beta(2)-microglobulin levels would suggest an activation of the immune system during ageing.  Increased KYNA metabolism may be involved in the hypofunction of the glutamatergic and/or nicotinic cholinergic neurotransmission in the ageing CNS.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradation', 'correlations between neurochemical and biological parameters', 'Two subject groups'], 'process': ['tryptophan degradation', 'high performance liquid chromatography method', 'KAT I and II activities', 'radioenzymatic assay', 'cellular immune activation', 'ELISA', 'CSF KYNA levels', 'ageing', 'elevated CSF KYNA', 'ageing', 'ageing', 'age-dependent increase', 'kynurenine metabolism', 'enhancement of CSF IgG and beta(2)-microglobulin levels', 'activation of the immune system', 'ageing', 'Increased KYNA metabolism', 'hypofunction of the glutamatergic and/or nicotinic cholinergic neurotransmission'], 'material': ['Kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'endogenous metabolite', 'N-methyl-D-aspartate', 'alpha 7 nicotinic cholinergic receptors', 'KYNA', 'kynurenine aminotransferases', 'KAT', 'immune mediators', 'levels of KYNA', 'cerebrospinal fluid', 'CSF', 'CSF', 'beta(2)-microglobulin,', 'serum samples', 'KYNA', 'KAT', 'KAT', 'II', 'CSF KYNA', 'age of subjects', 'KYNA', 'IgG', 'CSF', 'serum', 'CSF KYNA']}], 'authors': 'Rumsby Gill; Williams Emma; Coulter-Mackie Marion', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Digestive diseases and sciences ', 'title': 'Activity and stability of different immobilized preparations of recombinant E. coli cells containing ω-transaminase'}, {'document': ['The anti-oxidant activities of fucosterol isolated from the marine algae Pelvetia siliquosa were investigated.  Fucosterol exhibited a significant decrease in serum transaminase activities elevated by hepatic damage induced by CCl4-intoxication in rats.  Fucosterol inhibited the sGOT and sGPT activities by 25.57 and 63.16%, respectively.  Fucosterol showed the increase in the anti-oxidant enzymes such as hepatic cytosolic superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-px) activities by 33.89, 21.56 and 39.24%, respectively, in CCl4-intoxicated rats.  These results suggest that fucosterol possess not only the anti-oxidant, but also the hepatoprotective activities in rats.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['anti-oxidant activities'], 'process': ['hepatic damage', 'CCl4-intoxication in rats', 'hepatic cytosolic superoxide dismutase', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'anti-oxidant', 'hepatoprotective activities'], 'material': ['fucosterol', 'marine algae', 'Pelvetia siliquosa', 'Fucosterol', 'serum transaminase activities', 'Fucosterol', 'sGOT', 'sGPT', 'Fucosterol', 'anti-oxidant enzymes', 'SOD', 'catalase', 'GSH', 'px', 'CCl4', 'fucosterol']}], 'authors': 'He Ze; Stigers Lavoie Kimberly D; Bartlett Paul A; Toney Michael D', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'American journal of nephrology ', 'title': 'Imaging of branched chain amino acid metabolism in tumors with hyperpolarized 13C ketoisocaproate'}, {'document': ["A transaminase from Vibrio fluvialis JS17 showing activity toward chiral amines was purified to homogeneity and its enzymatic properties were characterized.  The transaminase showed an apparent molecular mass of 100 kDa as determined by gel filtration chromatography and a subunit mass of 50 kDa by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, suggesting a dimeric structure.  The enzyme had an isoelectric point of 5.4 and its absorption spectrum exhibited maxima at 320 and 405 nm.  The optimal pH and temperature for enzyme activity were 9.2 and 37 degrees C, respectively.  Pyruvate and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate increased enzyme stability whereas (S)-alpha-methylbenzylamine reversibly inactivated the enzyme.  The transaminase gene was cloned from a V. fluvialis JS17 genomic library.  The deduced amino acid sequence (453 residues) showed significant homology with omega-amino acid:pyruvate transaminases (omega-APT) from various bacterial strains (80 identical residues with four omega-APTs).  However, of 159 conserved residues in the four omega-APTs, 79 were not conserved in the transaminase from V. fluvialis JS17.  Taken together with the sequence homology results, and the lack of activity toward beta-alanine (a typical amino donor for the omega-APT), the results suggest that the transaminase is a novel amine:pyruvate transaminase that has not been reported to date."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['enzymatic properties', 'absorption spectrum', 'transaminase'], 'process': ['gel filtration chromatography', 'MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry', 'dimeric structure', 'increased enzyme stability', 'transaminase', 'sequence homology results', 'pyruvate transaminase'], 'material': ['transaminase', 'Vibrio fluvialis JS17', 'chiral amines', 'transaminase', 'enzyme', 'Pyruvate', 'pyridoxal', 'S)-alpha-methylbenzylamine', 'transaminase gene', 'V. fluvialis JS17 genomic library', 'deduced amino acid sequence', 'omega-amino acid:pyruvate transaminases', 'omega-APT', 'bacterial strains', '80 identical residues', 'omega-APTs', 'omega-APTs', 'V. fluvialis', 'beta-alanine', 'omega-APT']}], 'authors': 'Valentino K L; Gutierrez M; Sanchez R; Winship M J; Shapiro D A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Kidney international ', 'title': 'Potential beneficial effect of naringenin on lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in rats with ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity'}, {'document': ["The functional complementation of two Escherichia coli strains defective in the succinylase pathway of meso-diaminopimelate (meso-DAP) biosynthesis with a Bordetella pertussis gene library resulted in the isolation of a putative dap operon contg. three open reading frames (ORFs).  In line with the successful complementation of the E. coli dapD and dapE mutants, the deduced amino acid sequences of two ORFs revealed significant sequence similarities with the DapD and DapE proteins of E. coli and many other bacteria which exhibit tetrahydrodipicolinate succinylase and N-succinyl-L,L-DAP desuccinylase activity, resp.  The first ORF within the operon showed significant sequence similarities with transaminases and contains the characteristic pyridoxal-5'-phosphate binding motif.  Enzymic studies revealed that this ORF encodes a protein with N-succinyl-L,L-DAP aminotransferase activity converting N-succinyl-2-amino-6-ketopimelate, the product of the succinylase DapD, to N-succinyl-L,L-DAP, the substrate of the desuccinylase DapE.  Therefore, this gene appears to encode the DapC protein of B. pertussis.  Apart from the pyridoxal-5'-phosphate binding motif, the DapC protein does not show further amino acid sequence similarities with the only other known enzyme with N-succinyl-L,L-DAP aminotransferase activity, ArgD of E. coli."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['functional complementation'], 'process': ['succinylase pathway', 'dap operon', "pyridoxal-5'-phosphate binding motif", 'Enzymic studies', "pyridoxal-5'-phosphate binding motif", 'ArgD'], 'material': ['Escherichia coli', 'meso-DAP', 'Bordetella pertussis gene library', 'open reading frames', 'E. coli', 'dapD', 'dapE', 'deduced amino acid sequences', 'DapD and DapE proteins', 'tetrahydrodipicolinate succinylase', 'N-succinyl-L,L-DAP desuccinylase', 'ORF', 'transaminases', 'ORF', 'protein', 'N-succinyl-L,L-DAP aminotransferase activity', 'N-succinyl-2-amino-6-ketopimelate', 'succinylase DapD', 'N-succinyl-L,L-DAP', 'desuccinylase DapE.', 'DapC protein', 'DapC protein', 'N-succinyl-L,L-DAP aminotransferase activity']}], 'authors': 'Desmarchelier P M; Bilge S S; Fegan N; Mills L; Vary J C Jr; Tarr P I', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of the American Chemical Society ', 'title': 'The effect of a silybin-vitamin e-phospholipid complex on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: a pilot study'}, {'document': ['The genes encoding the seven enzymes needed to synthesize L-lysine from aspartate semialdehyde and pyruvate have been identified in a number of bacterial genera, with the single exception of the dapC gene encoding the PLP-dependent N-succinyl-L, L-diaminopimelate:alpha-ketoglutarate aminotransferase (DapATase).  Purification of E. coli DapATase allowed the determination of both the amino-terminal 26 amino acids and a tryptic peptide fragment.  Sequence analysis identified both of these sequences as being identical to corresponding sequences from the PLP-dependent E. coli argD-encoded N-acetylornithine aminotransferase (NAcOATase).  This enzyme performs a similar reaction to that of DapATase, catalyzing the N-acetylornithine-dependent transamination of alpha-ketoglutarate.  PCR cloning of the argD gene from genomic E. coli DNA, expression, and purification yielded homogeneous E. coli NAcOATase.  This enzyme exhibits both NAcOATase and DapATase activity, with similar specificity constants for N-acetylornithine and N-succinyl-L,L-DAP, suggesting that it can function in both lysine and arginine biosynthesis.  This finding may explain why numerous investigations have failed to identify genetically the bacterial dapC locus, and suggests that this enzyme may be an attractive target for antibacterial inhibitor design due to the essential roles of these two pathways in bacteria.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['antibacterial inhibitor design'], 'process': ['synthesize L-lysine from aspartate semialdehyde', 'Purification', 'Sequence analysis', 'PCR cloning', 'expression', 'purification', 'DapATase activity'], 'material': ['pyruvate', 'dapC', 'PLP-dependent N-succinyl-L, L-diaminopimelate', 'alpha-ketoglutarate', 'DapATase', 'E. coli', 'DapATase', 'amino-terminal 26 amino acids', 'tryptic peptide fragment', 'PLP-dependent', 'argD', 'N-acetylornithine aminotransferase', 'NAcOATase', 'enzyme', 'DapATase', 'N-acetylornithine-dependent transamination', 'argD', 'E. coli', 'NAcOATase', 'NAcOATase', 'N-acetylornithine', 'N-succinyl-L,L-DAP']}], 'authors': 'Sivakumari, K.; Manavalaramanujam, R.; Ramesh, M.; Lakshmi, R.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'International journal of clinical pharmacology and therapeutics ', 'title': 'Molecular etiology of primary hyperoxaluria type 1: new directions for treatment'}, {'document': ["We have developed overexpression systems for the human branched-chain aminotransferase isoenzymes.  The enzymes function as dimers and have substrate specificity comparable with the rat enzymes.  The human cytosolic enzyme appears to turn over 2-5 times faster than the mitochondrial enzyme, and there may be anion and cation effects on the kinetics of both enzymes.  The two proteins demonstrate similar absorption profiles, and the far UV circular dichroism spectra show that no global structural changes occur when the proteins are converted from the pyridoxal to pyridoxamine form.  On the other hand, the near UV circular dichroism spectra suggest differences in the local environment surrounding tyrosines within these proteins.  Both enzymes require a reducing environment for maximal activity, but the mitochondrial enzyme can be inhibited by nickel ions in the presence of reducing agents, while the cytosolic enzyme is unaffected.  Chemical denaturation profiles of the proteins show that there are differences in structural stability.  Titration of -SH groups with 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) suggests that no disulfide bonds are present in the mitochondrial enzyme and that at least two disulfide bonds are present in the cytosolic enzyme.  Two -SH groups are titrated in the native form of the mitochondrial enzyme, leading to complete inhibition of activity, while only one -SH group is titrated in the cytosolic enzyme with no effect on activity.  Although these proteins share 58% identity in primary amino acid sequence, the local environment surrounding the active site appears unique for each isoenzyme."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['absorption profiles'], 'process': ['overexpression systems', 'anion and cation effects', 'global structural changes', 'near UV circular dichroism spectra', 'Chemical denaturation profiles', 'Titration of -SH groups'], 'material': ['human branched-chain aminotransferase isoenzymes', 'rat enzymes', 'human cytosolic enzyme', 'mitochondrial enzyme', 'enzymes', 'far UV circular dichroism spectra', 'proteins', 'pyridoxal to pyridoxamine form', 'reducing environment', 'mitochondrial enzyme', 'nickel ions', 'reducing agents', 'cytosolic enzyme', "5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid", 'disulfide bonds', 'mitochondrial enzyme', 'disulfide bonds', 'cytosolic enzyme', 'Two -SH groups', 'mitochondrial enzyme', 'one -SH group', 'cytosolic enzyme']}], 'authors': "O'Brien C B; Senior J R; Arora-Mirchandani R; Batta A K; Salen G", 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of clinical microbiology ', 'title': 'Evaluation of mutation screening as a first line test for the diagnosis of the primary hyperoxalurias'}, {'document': ["The levels of the neuroprotective excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist kynurenic acid (KYNA) have been previously shown to be reduced in several regions of the brain of Huntington's disease (HD) patients.  Thus, KYNA has been speculatively linked to the pathogenesis of HD.  We have examined KYNA levels and the activity of its two biosynthetic enzymes (kynurenine aminotransferases (KAT) I and II) in 12 regions of brains from late-stage HD patients and control donors (n = 17 each).  KYNA levels were measured in the original tissue homogenate.  Using [3H]kynurenine as the substrate, enzyme activities were determined in dialyzed tissue homogenates.  KYNA levels in the caudate nucleus decreased from 733 +/- 95 in controls to 401 +/- 62 fmol/mg tissue in HD (p < 0.01).  The activity of both enzymes was highest in cortical areas (e.g. control frontal cortex: KAT I: 148 +/- 18 fmol/mg tissue/h; KAT II: 25 +/- 2 fmol/mg tissue/h).  The activities of both KAT I and KAT II, when expressed per mg original weight, showed significant decreases (48-55%) in the HD putamen (p < 0.01).  Trends toward lower enzyme activities and KYNA concentrations were detected in other brain areas as well.  Kinetic analyses, performed in putamen and cerebellum, showed an approximately 3-fold increase in Km values for both KAT I and KAT II in the putamen only.  Vmax values remained unchanged in the HD brain.  These findings indicate a selective impairment in KYNA biosynthesis in the neostriatum of HD patients, possibly due to the loss of (an) endogenous KAT activator(s).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ["Huntington's disease", 'HD', 'HD', 'biosynthetic enzymes', 'kynurenine aminotransferases', 'enzyme activities', 'activity of both enzymes', 'Kinetic analyses', 'Vmax', 'KYNA biosynthesis'], 'material': ['neuroprotective excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'KYNA', 'KYNA', 'KAT', '12 regions', 'late-stage HD patients', 'control donors', 'KYNA', 'tissue homogenate', '[3H]kynurenine as the substrate', 'dialyzed tissue homogenates', 'KYNA', 'caudate', 'cortical areas', 'control frontal cortex', 'KAT', 'I', 'KAT', 'II', 'KAT', 'KAT', 'II', 'HD putamen', 'enzyme', 'KYNA', 'putamen', 'KAT', 'KAT', 'II', 'HD brain', 'HD patients', 'endogenous KAT activator(s).(ABSTRACT']}], 'authors': 'Purdue P E; Lumb M J; Fox M; Griffo G; Hamon-Benais C; Povey S; Danpure C J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Environmental Biology ', 'title': 'Conservation of mechanism in three chorismate-utilizing enzymes'}, {'document': ["OBJECTIVES:  Our objectives were to describe the presentation and course of hyperemesis gravidarum with respect to thyroid function and to test the hypothesis that patients with biochemical hyperthyroidism differ in clinical presentation from euthyroid hyperemesis patients.  STUDY DESIGN:  Sixty-seven patients seen at Los Angeles County Women's Hospital over a 10-month period with hyperemesis gravidarum were studied prospectively with respect to thyroid function.  RESULTS:  Forty-four patients (66%) had biochemical hyperthyroidism (increased free thyroxine index [n = 39] or suppressed thyroid-stimulating hormone [n = 40]) that was self-limited, resolving by 18 weeks' gestation.  Hyperthyroid patients were more likely than euthyroid patients to have abnormal electrolyte levels (23/39 [59%] vs 6/28 [21%] and increased liver enzyme levels (23/59 [59%] vs 5/28 [18%], p less than 0.01).  The severity of hyperemesis was found to vary directly with the degree of hyperthyroidism.  CONCLUSIONS:  Hyperthyroidism is a common, self-limited finding in hyperemesis.  The cause of the hyperthyroidism may be linked to the cause of hyperemesis itself."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['describe the presentation and course of hyperemesis gravidarum with respect to thyroid function', 'test the hypothesis that patients with biochemical hyperthyroidism', 'Hyperthyroid patients'], 'process': ['biochemical hyperthyroidism', 'increased free thyroxine index', 'suppressed thyroid-stimulating hormone', 'hyperthyroidism'], 'material': ['euthyroid hyperemesis', "Los Angeles County Women's Hospital", '66%', 'euthyroid patients', 'abnormal electrolyte levels', 'increased liver enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Badet B; Vermoote P; Haumont P Y; Lederer F; LeGoffic F', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'First clinical trial of a novel caspase inhibitor: anti-apoptotic caspase inhibitor, IDN-6556, improves liver enzymes'}, {'document': ['The Escherichia coli pabA and pabB genes have been overexpressed separately and in tandem.  Using purified PabB, we have confirmed the recent suggestion that PabB needs an additional protein, enzyme X, to convert chorismate and NH3 to p-aminobenzoate (PABA).  With chorismate and NH3, pure PabB generates an intermediate presumed to be 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate based upon UV/visible spectroscopy and enzymatic and nonenzymatic transformations.  The PabB-catalyzed interconversion of chorismate and isolated aminodeoxychorismate is readily reversible.  With pure PabB as a stoichiometric assay reagent, enzyme X was purified approximately 800-fold to near homogeneity as an apparent homodimer of 50 kDa from E. coli.  Enzyme X shows no activity on chorismate but quantitatively converts the preformed aminodeoxychorismate into p-aminobenzoate and pyruvate, acting thereby as an aminodeoxychorismate lyase.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['overexpressed separately and in tandem', 'UV/visible spectroscopy', 'enzymatic and nonenzymatic transformations', 'PabB-catalyzed interconversion'], 'material': ['Escherichia coli', 'pabA', 'pabB', 'purified PabB', 'PabB', 'enzyme X', 'chorismate and NH3', 'p-aminobenzoate', 'PABA', 'chorismate', 'NH3', 'PabB', '4-amino-4-deoxychorismate', 'chorismate', 'isolated aminodeoxychorismate', 'PabB', 'stoichiometric assay reagent', 'enzyme X', 'apparent homodimer', 'Enzyme', 'chorismate', 'p-aminobenzoate', 'pyruvate', 'aminodeoxychorismate lyase']}], 'authors': 'Inana G; Totsuka S; Redmond M; Dougherty T; Nagle J; Shiono T; Ohura T; Kominami E; Katunuma N', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Genomics ', 'title': 'A PCR specific for Escherichia coli O157 based on the rfb locus encoding O157 lipopolysaccharide'}, {'document': ['In Pseudomonas aeruginosa N-2-acetylornithine 5-aminotransferase (ACOAT), the fourth enzyme of arginine biosynthesis is induced about 15-fold by cultivating the organism on a medium with L-arginine as the sole carbon and nitrogen source.  Synthesis of the enzyme is subject to catabolite repression and nitrogen source.  Synthesis of the enzyme is subject to catabolite repression by a variety of carbon sources.  ACOAT from strain PAO 1 was purified over 40-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity.  A molecular weight of approximately 110,000 was obtained by thin-layer gel filtration.  Electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate gels gave a single band corresponding to a molecular weight of 55,000.  Purified ACOAT catalyzes the transamination of N-2-acetyl-L-ornithine as well as of L-ornithine with 2-oxoglutarate (Km values of 1.1, 10.0, and 0.7 mM, respectively).  With N-2-acetyl-L-ornithine as amino donor, the pH-optimum of the enzymatic reaction is 8.5; with L-ornithine as amino donor, 9.5.  The catalytic properties of ACOAT as well as the regulation of its synthesis indicate that in P. aeruginosa this enzyme functions in the biosynthesis as well as in the catabolism of L-arginine.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['arginine biosynthesis', 'catalytic properties', 'biosynthesis as well as in the'], 'process': ['cultivating the organism', 'Synthesis of the enzyme', 'catabolite repression', 'Synthesis of the enzyme', 'catabolite repression', 'thin-layer gel filtration', 'Electrophoresis', 'transamination of N-2-acetyl-L-ornithine', 'enzymatic reaction', 'regulation of its synthesis', 'catabolism'], 'material': ['Pseudomonas aeruginosa', 'N-2-acetylornithine', 'ACOAT', 'fourth enzyme', 'L-arginine', 'nitrogen source', 'carbon sources', 'ACOAT', 'PAO', 'sodium dodecyl sulfate gels', 'single band', 'ACOAT', 'L-ornithine', '2-oxoglutarate', 'N-2-acetyl-L-ornithine', 'amino donor', 'L-ornithine', 'amino donor', 'ACOAT', 'P. aeruginosa', 'enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Ubuka T; Umemura S; Yuasa S; Kinuta M; Watanabe K', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Cypermethrin toxicity: sublethal effects on enzyme activities in a freshwater fish, Cyprinus carpio var. communis'}, {'document': ['Anthranilate synthase in Pseudomonas putida is a two component enzyme system.  The proteins, termed AS I and AS II, have respective molecular weights of 65,000 and 18,000.  Five additional Pseudomonas species, both tryptophan requiring and independent strains, were examined and all were shown to contain similar two component systems.  Anthranilate formation by "amide transfer," with L-glutamine as nitrogen donor, requires both proteins; "amination," utilizing ammonium ion, proceeds at pH 9 with only the larger component, AS I.  The product of the P. putida trpA gene, AS I, carries the chorismate binding and tryptophan feedback inhibition sites whereas the smaller component, AS II, functions in glutamine binding.  We have not been able to prepare mutants lacking AS II activity nor have other catalytic activities been detected for this protein.  The second step unique to tryptophan biosynthesis is catalyzed by phosphoribosyl transferase, in P. putida the trpB gene product.  Phosphoribosyl transferase, EC 2.4.2.14, is separable from both AS I and II, and is not required for anthranilate synthesis.  This chromosomal and protein organization differs from the array found in the enteric bacteria where phosphoribosyl transferase carries also the AS CoII enzymic activity.Among the six Pseudomonas species examined, two groups may be distinguished on the basis of subunit complementation, the putida-aeruginosa (p-a), and the acidovorans-testosteroni (c-t).  Within these groups the hybrid enzymes are equivalent in activity to the native enzyme and the level of subunits required is comparable.  Between the groups the hybrid enzymes are lower in activity than either native form.  The c-t components separate with difficulty and the aggregate appears to be larger than the more freely dissociable p-a complex.  P. stutzeri resembles the p-a class and P. multivorans the c-t class.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['chromosomal and protein organization'], 'process': ['Anthranilate synthase', 'two component enzyme system', 'formation by', '"amide transfer', '"amination', 'chorismate binding and tryptophan feedback inhibition sites', 'glutamine binding', 'tryptophan biosynthesis', 'phosphoribosyl transferase', 'Phosphoribosyl transferase', 'anthranilate synthesis', 'phosphoribosyl transferase', 'CoII enzymic activity', 'subunit complementation'], 'material': ['Pseudomonas putida', 'Pseudomonas', 'tryptophan requiring and independent strains', 'Anthranilate', 'L-glutamine', 'nitrogen donor', 'proteins', 'ammonium ion', 'the larger component', 'P. putida trpA', 'II', 'P. putida', 'trpB gene product', 'enteric bacteria', 'Pseudomonas', 'putida', 'p-a', 'acidovorans-testosteroni', 'c-t', 'hybrid enzymes', 'hybrid enzymes', 'native form', 'c-t components', 'more freely dissociable p-a complex', 'P. stutzeri', 'p-a class', 'P. multivorans', 'c-t class']}], 'authors': 'Silverman, Richard B.; Abeles, Robert H.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Ursodeoxycholic acid for the treatment of primary sclerosing cholangitis: a 30-month pilot study'}, {'document': ['Glucocorticoid receptors with many properties suggesting their involvement in the hormonal induction of tyrosine aminotransferase have been detected in rat hepatoma tissue culture cells.  These "specific receptors" approach saturation as the steroid concentrations required for maximal induction are reached.  Inducer analogs influence cortisol binding to the specific receptors in direct relation to their influence on cortisol induction.  The inducer association with and dissociation from specific receptors are rapid enough to account for the kinetics of induction and deinduction.  Chromatographic studies suggest the specific receptors bind unaltered dexamethasone and cortisol. "Nonspecific" association of steroids with the cells also occurs and can be distinguished from specific binding.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Glucocorticoid receptors', 'hormonal induction of tyrosine aminotransferase', '"specific receptors', 'maximal induction', 'specific receptors'], 'process': ['cortisol induction', 'inducer association with and dissociation from specific receptors', 'induction', 'deinduction', 'Chromatographic studies', '"Nonspecific" association', 'specific binding'], 'material': ['rat hepatoma tissue culture cells', 'steroid', 'Inducer analogs', 'cortisol', 'dexamethasone', 'cortisol', 'steroids', 'cells']}], 'authors': 'Cooper, Arthur J. L.; Meister, Alton', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Physiological chemistry and physics ', 'title': 'Characterization and chromosomal mapping of a genomic clone encoding human alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase'}, {'document': ['γ-Aminobutyrate (GABA) accumulates in apple fruit during controlled atm. storage.  Here, we demonstrated that GABA levels declined markedly in apples (Malus × domestica Borkh. cv. Empire) within 3 h after transfer from controlled atm. storage (3 °C, 2.5 kPa O2, 2.5 kPa CO2) to ambient conditions.  Also, we identified two genes encoding apple fruit GABA transaminase (GABA-T), the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of GABA to succinic semialdehyde.  The deduced amino acid sequences of the two MdGABA-T enzymes were 93% identical to each other, and 74-83% identical to known Arabidopsis and tomato GABA-Ts.  Transient expression of the individual full-length proteins fused to the green fluorescent protein in tobacco suspension-cultured cells revealed that MdGABA-T1 and MdGABA-T2 were localized to mitochondria.  Removal of the N-terminal targeting presequences yielded good recovery of the sol. recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli when they were co-expressed with the GroES/EL mol. chaperone complex.  Continuous monitoring of recombinant GABA-T activity via a bacterial NADP+-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase-linked assay established that the two GABA-Ts in apple fruit, like the mitochondrial GABA-T in Arabidopsis and the mitochondrial, plastidial and cytosolic GABA-Ts in tomato, utilized pyruvate and glyoxylate, but not 2-oxoglutarate.  Thus, the substrate specificity of the two apple fruit GABA-Ts was similar to that for the GABA-Ts in Arabidopsis and tomato.  However, the existence of two GABA-Ts in the mitochondria of apple fruit differed from the scenarios found in the other two species, providing yet another variation on the subcellular distribution of GABA-Ts in plant cells.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Continuous monitoring', 'substrate specificity', 'subcellular distribution of GABA-Ts'], 'process': ['controlled atm. storage', 'GABA transaminase', '-', 'T', 'catabolism of GABA', 'Transient expression', 'Removal of the N-terminal targeting presequences', 'bacterial NADP+-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase-linked assay'], 'material': ['γ-Aminobutyrate', 'GABA', 'apple fruit', 'GABA', 'apples', 'Malus × domestica Borkh.', 'apple fruit', 'GABA', 'succinic semialdehyde', 'MdGABA-T enzymes', 'Arabidopsis', 'GABA', 'full-length proteins', 'green fluorescent protein', 'tobacco suspension-cultured cells', 'MdGABA-T1', 'MdGABA-T2', 'mitochondria', 'sol. recombinant proteins', 'GroES/EL mol. chaperone complex', 'recombinant GABA-T', 'GABA', 'apple fruit', 'mitochondrial GABA', 'mitochondrial, plastidial and cytosolic GABA-Ts', 'tomato', 'pyruvate', 'glyoxylate', '2-oxoglutarate', 'apple fruit GABA-Ts', 'GABA-Ts', 'Arabidopsis', 'tomato', 'GABA-Ts', 'mitochondria', 'apple fruit', 'plant cells']}], 'authors': 'Freese E B; Cole R M; Klofat W; Freese E', 'DOI': '10.1021/bi00666a028', 'journal': 'Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Glucosamine synthetase from Escherichia coli: purification, properties, and glutamine-utilizing site location'}, {'document': ['Lithium is commonly used in treating mental disorders and bipolar diseases.  As physicians frequently keep the patients on long-term lithium therapy, awareness of the numerous side effects and pathogenesis of this lightest alkali metal is needed for such treatments.  The present study was designed to evaluate the toxic effect of small doses of lithium chloride in male Wistar rats.  The oral administration of lithium chloride (15, 30 mg/kg body wt) for 7 wk through their drinking water elicited a significant alteration in their body wt. and blood serum chem.  The serum enzyme levels of alk. phosphatase (ALP), high d. lipoprotein (HDLP), and creatinine kinase (CK) were diminished, whereas the level of serum urea and glucose were elevated in the lithium treated animals, depicting the disturbed general physiol. status.  Furthermore, a marked inhibition in the levels of serum alanine and aspartate transaminases (ALT and AST) reflected a stimulating transamination reaction in hepatic and renal tissues.  Lithium exposure also reduced the glutathione (GSH) level and stimulated the lipid peroxidn. (LPO) level in the rat blood cells, indicating oxidative stress in the red blood cells due to lithium exposures.  The histopathol. observations of the liver and kidney tissues revealed many deformities and histol. alterations due to lithium treatment.  The results of present study suggest that small doses of lithium induce toxicity in rat blood as well as in liver and kidney tissues.  However, the precise mechanism of lithium toxicity is still incompletely understood.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treating mental disorders and bipolar diseases', 'evaluate the toxic effect of small doses', 'disturbed general physiol. status', 'histopathol. observations', 'histol. alterations'], 'process': ['lithium therapy', 'oral administration', 'serum enzyme levels', 'alk. phosphatase', 'ALP', 'HDLP', 'CK', 'ALT', 'AST', 'stimulating transamination reaction', 'Lithium exposure', 'reduced the glutathione', 'lipid peroxidn', 'LPO', 'oxidative stress', 'lithium exposures', 'lithium treatment', 'induce toxicity', 'lithium toxicity'], 'material': ['Lithium', 'alkali metal', 'lithium chloride', 'male Wistar rats', 'lithium chloride', 'drinking water', 'blood serum chem', 'high d. lipoprotein', 'creatinine kinase', 'serum urea', 'lithium treated animals', 'serum alanine and aspartate transaminases', 'hepatic and renal tissues', 'GSH', 'rat blood cells', 'red blood cells', 'liver and kidney tissues', 'small doses', 'lithium', 'rat blood', 'liver and kidney tissues']}], 'authors': 'Bussler Sarah; Vogel Mandy; Pietzner Diana; Harms Kristian; Buzek Theresa; Penke Melanie; Handel Norman; Korner Antje; Baumann Ulrich; Kiess Wieland; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of Biological Chemistry ', 'title': 'Molecular cloning of human ornithine aminotransferase mRNA'}, {'document': ['Our aim was to examine the relation of serum osteocalcin (OCN) levels with the clin., biochem., and histol. characteristics of patients with biopsy-proven nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).  We carried out a case-control study including 99 patients with biopsy-proven NAFLD and 75 age- and sex-matched controls.  Concns. of OCN were measured in aprotinin-treated serum samples using a solid-phase enzyme amplified sensitivity immunoassay.  Serum OCN levels were significantly lower in patients with NAFLD than in healthy controls.  In patients with NAFLD, serum OCN levels were inversely assocd. with ALT (r ==-0.36, p < 0.001), AST (r ==-0.39, p < 0.001), HOMA-IR (r ==-0.30, p < 0.01) and the degree of hepatocyte ballooning (r ==-0.20, p < 0.05).  Serum OCN was the only independent predictor of the degree of hepatocyte ballooning in NAFLD patients (β ==-0.24; t == -2.146, p < 0.05).  Compared with controls, NAFLD patients have a decrease in serum OCN concns., which is significantly assocd. with serum transaminases and the extent of hepatocyte ballooning.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['examine the relation of serum osteocalcin', 'clin., biochem., and histol. characteristics', 'case-control study'], 'process': ['nonalcoholic fatty liver disease', 'NAFLD', 'solid-phase enzyme amplified sensitivity immunoassay', 'NAFLD', 'NAFLD', 'IR', 'hepatocyte ballooning', 'hepatocyte ballooning', 'hepatocyte ballooning'], 'material': ['OCN', 'patients with biopsy-proven NAFLD', 'Concns.', 'OCN', 'aprotinin-treated serum samples', 'Serum OCN', 'serum OCN', 'ALT', 'AST', 'HOMA', 'Serum OCN', 'NAFLD patients', 'NAFLD patients', 'serum OCN concns', 'serum transaminases']}], 'authors': 'Slabu, Iustina; Galman, James L.; Weise, Nicholas J.; Lloyd, Richard C.; Turner, Nicholas J.', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Purification and characterization of mitochondrial cysteine aminotransferase from rat liver'}, {'document': ['A large number of xenobiotics are reported to be potentially hepatotoxic.  Free radicals generated from the xenobiotic metabolism can induce lesions of the liver and react with the basic cellular constituents - proteins, lipids, RNA and DNA.  Hepatoprotective activity of aqueous ethanol extract of Zingiber officinale was evaluated against single dose of acetaminophen-induced (3g/kg, p.o.) acute hepatotoxicity in rat.  Aqueous extract of Z. officinale significantly protected the hepatotoxicity as evident from the activities of serum transaminase and alkaline phosphatase (ALP).  Serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT), serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) and ALP activities were significantly (p<0.01) elevated in the acetaminophen alone treated animals.  Antioxidant status in liver such as activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase (GST), a phase II enzyme, and levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) were declined significantly (p<0.01) in the acetaminophen alone treated animals (control group).  Hepatic lipid peroxidation was enhanced significantly (p<0.01) in the control group.  Administration of single dose of aqueous extract of Z. officinale (200 and 400mg/kg, p.o.) prior to acetaminophen significantly declines the activities of serum transaminases and ALP.  Further the hepatic antioxidant status was enhanced in the Z. officinale plus acetaminophen treated group than the control group.  The results of the present study concluded that the hepatoprotective effect of aqueous ethanol extract of Z. officinale against acetaminophen-induced acute toxicity is mediated either by preventing the decline of hepatic antioxidant status or due to its direct radical scavenging capacity.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['Hepatoprotective activity', 'hepatoprotective effect'], 'process': ['xenobiotic metabolism', 'serum transaminase', 'ALP', 'SGPT', 'SGOT', 'ALP', 'Antioxidant status', 'superoxide dismutase', 'glutathione-S-transferase', 'GST', 'Hepatic lipid peroxidation', 'Administration of single dose', 'declines the activities of serum transaminases', 'hepatic antioxidant status', 'preventing the decline of hepatic antioxidant status', 'direct radical scavenging capacity'], 'material': ['xenobiotics', 'Free radicals', 'basic cellular constituents', 'proteins', 'lipids', 'RNA', 'aqueous ethanol extract', 'single dose', 'acetaminophen', 'Aqueous extract', 'Serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase', 'serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase', 'acetaminophen', 'liver', 'SOD', 'catalase', 'CAT', 'glutathione peroxidase', 'phase II enzyme', 'reduced glutathione', 'GSH', 'acetaminophen alone treated animals', 'aqueous extract', '200 and 400mg/kg', 'Z. officinale plus acetaminophen', 'aqueous ethanol extract', 'acetaminophen']}], 'authors': 'Sun, Wellington; Eckels, Kenneth H.; Putnak, J. Robert; Lyons, Arthur G.; Thomas, Stephen J.; Vaughn, David W.; Gibbons, Robert V.; Fernandez, Stefan; Gunther, Vicky J.; Mammen, Mammen P., Jr.; et al', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Hepatology ', 'title': 'Inactivation of pyridoxal phosphate dependent enzymes by mono- and polyhaloalanines'}, {'document': ['Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is an atypical peroxisomal disorder, as befits a deficiency of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT), which is itself an atypical peroxisomal enzyme.  PH1 is characterized by excessive synthesis and excretion of the metabolic end-product oxalate and the progressive accumulation of insoluble calcium oxalate in the kidney and urinary tract.  Disease in many patients is caused by a unique protein trafficking defect in which AGT is mistargeted from peroxisomes to mitochondria, where it is metabolically ineffectual, despite remaining catalytically active.  Although the peroxisomal import of human AGT is dependent upon the PTS1 import receptor PEX5p, its PTS1 is exquisitely specific for mammalian AGT, suggesting the presence of additional peroxisomal targeting information elsewhere in the AGT molecule.  This and many other functional peculiarities of AGT are probably a consequence of its rather chequered evolutionary history, during which much of its time has been spent being a mitochondrial, rather than a peroxisomal, enzyme.  Analysis of the molecular basis of AGT mistargeting in PH1 has thrown into sharp relief some of the fundamental differences between the requirements of the peroxisomal and mitochondrial protein import pathways, particularly the properties of peroxisomal and mitochondrial matrix targeting sequences and the different conformational limitations placed upon importable cargos.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Primary hyperoxaluria', 'PH1', 'deficiency of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'PH1', 'excessive synthesis and excretion of the metabolic end-product', 'protein trafficking defect', 'peroxisomal import', 'PTS1 import receptor', 'AGT mistargeting', 'peroxisomal and mitochondrial protein import pathways'], 'material': ['AGT', 'oxalate', 'insoluble calcium oxalate', 'AGT', 'mitochondria', 'PEX5p', 'mammalian AGT', 'AGT molecule', 'AGT', 'mitochondrial, rather than a peroxisomal', 'peroxisomal and mitochondrial matrix targeting sequences', 'importable cargos']}], 'authors': 'Nagy Gabor; Szarka Andras; Lotz Gabor; Doczi Judit; Wunderlich Livius; Kiss Andras; Jemnitz Katalin; Veres Zsuzsa; Banhegyi Gabor; Schaff Zsuzsa; et al', 'DOI': '10.1002/cctc.201600075', 'journal': 'ChemCatChem ', 'title': 'Isolation and properties of a new glutamine transaminase from rat kidney'}, {'document': ['Modification of intracellular proteins by the beta-linkage of the monosaccharide, N-acetylglucosamine to serine or threonine hydroxyls (O-GlcNAc) is abundant and reversible.  Although many proteins bear this post-translational covalent modification, the changes in function of the proteins as a result of this modification are only starting to be understood.  In this article, we describe how aspects of the flux from the glucose backbone to this modification are modified and how the cellular activity and content of the GC-box binding transcription factor, Sp1, is altered by O-glycosylation.  The association of the enzyme that puts on the O-GlcNAc modification with the bi-functional enzyme that removes this modification is discussed relative to the transition between transcriptional repression and activation.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Modification of intracellular proteins', 'beta-linkage', 'post-translational covalent modification', 'modification', 'O-glycosylation', 'O-GlcNAc modification'], 'material': ['N-acetylglucosamine', 'serine or threonine hydroxyls', 'O-GlcNAc', 'aspects of the flux from the glucose backbone', 'GC-box binding transcription factor', 'Sp1', 'bi-functional enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Prell Jurgen; Bourdes Alexandre; Karunakaran Ramakrishnan; Lopez-Gomez Miguel; Poole Philip', 'DOI': '10.1093/infdis/jis744', 'journal': 'Journal of Infectious Diseases ', 'title': 'Growth, sporulation, and enzyme defects of glucosamine mutants of Bacillus subtilis'}, {'document': ['Invasive Fungal Infections (IFI) remain a severe and major complication among patients with hematol. diseases, but the recent availability of new antifungal agents (echinocandins and new azoles) have improved the chance of cure.  Caspofungin (Cancidas-Merck) is a large lipopeptide mol. able to inhibit the enzyme complex 1,3-D-glucan synthetase; this action specifically damages the fungal cell wall.  Caspofungin (CAS) is active, in vitro and in vivo, against most Candida species and Aspergillus species.  We report on our experience with this drug as first-line therapy for proven or probable pulmonary IFI in immunocompromised patients with hematol. malignancies.  Thirty-two consecutive patients (20 males and 12 females, with a median age of 52 yr) have been treated with CAS (27 acute leukemias, 1 chronic leukemia, 3 lymphomas and 1 multiple myeloma).  Sixteen patients (50%) had a relapsed or resistant hematol. disease, while 12 patients were in complete remission and 4 were at onset of disease; 8/32 (25%) developed IFI after a hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) procedure.  Seven out of 32 patients (22%) had a proven pulmonary IFI (7/7 Aspergillosis) and 25 (78%) had a probable IFI with pulmonary localization as defined according to international consensus.  Thirty-one patients (97%) had less than 1000 granulocytes/mL at onset of infection and at the start of CAS therapy.  The CAS was given at the dose of 70 mg on day 1, followed by 50 mg/day.  Median duration of CAS therapy was 20 d (range 8-64); all the 31 neutropenic patients received concomitant granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF).  The overall response rate was 56% (18/32) with 12/18 complete responses and 6/18 partial responses; two patients (6%) had a stable disease.  Twelve out of 32 (38%) did not respond and seven died of mycotic infection.  Univariate anal. showed that granulocytes recovery (> 500/mL vs. < 500/mL) and status of hematol. disease (remission/onset vs. refractory/relapsed) were significantly assocd. to favorable outcome.  No clin. adverse events (AE) were reported and only a grades I and II transient increase of serum alk. phosphatase and/or transaminases occurred in 4/32 (12%) patients.  After CAS therapy six non-responders and six cases with a partial or stable response were rescued with voriconazole.  Two out of six patients (33%) in the former group and 6/6 (100%) in the latter obtained a complete resoln. of IFI.  Our experience suggests an efficacy of CAS, in combination with G-CSF, as first-line treatment of proven or probable IFI with pulmonary localization.  The drug was well tolerated and there were no significant hepatic AE even in patients receiving CAS with cyclosporine after a HSCT.  A significant proportion of non-responders or partial responders to CAS can be rescued with a subsequent voriconazole-based therapy.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Invasive Fungal Infections', 'IFI', 'inhibit the enzyme complex 1,3-D-glucan synthetase', 'IFI', 'hematopoietic stem cell transplant', 'HSCT', 'CAS therapy', 'CAS therapy', 'stable disease', 'mycotic infection', 'Univariate anal.', 'granulocytes recovery', 'remission', 'adverse events', 'AE', 'CAS therapy', 'hepatic AE', 'HSCT'], 'material': ['antifungal agents', 'echinocandins', 'azoles', 'Caspofungin', 'Cancidas-Merck', 'large lipopeptide mol', 'fungal cell wall', 'Caspofungin', 'CAS', 'Candida', 'Aspergillus species', 'CAS', 'acute leukemias', 'chronic leukemia', 'lymphomas', 'multiple myeloma', 'relapsed or resistant hematol. disease', 'pulmonary IFI', 'Aspergillosis', 'probable IFI', 'CAS', 'concomitant granulocyte colony-stimulating', 'G-CSF', 'non-responders', 'voriconazole', 'CAS', 'G-CSF', 'IFI', 'CAS', 'cyclosporine', 'non-responders', 'CAS', 'voriconazole-based therapy']}], 'authors': 'Kasdallah-Grissa, Abir; Nakbi, Amel; Koubaa, Nadia; El-Fazaa, Saloua; Gharbi, Najoua; Kamoun, Abdelaziz; Hammami, Mohamed', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Toxicology and applied pharmacology ', 'title': 'New pediatric percentiles of liver enzyme serum levels (alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, γ-glutamyltransferase): Effects of age, sex, body mass index, and pubertal stage'}, {'document': ["Substantial evidence indicates that neuroactive kynurenine metabolites play a role in the normal physiology of the human brain, and are involved in the pathology of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD).  A sidearm product of the pathway, kynurenic acid (KYNA), which is synthesized by the irreversible transamination of kynurenine (KYN) by kynurenine aminotransferases (KAT I and KAT II), is an excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist.  In the present study we measured the level of KYNA and the activities of the biosynthetic enzyme isoforms KAT I and KAT II in the plasma and in the erythrocytes (RBC) of 19 PD patients and 17 age-matched controls.  The KAT I and KAT II activities were significantly lower in the plasma of PD patients, followed by a tendency to a decrease in plasma KYNA.  An elevated KYNA level correlated with a significant increase in KAT II activity in the RBC of PD patients.  These data support the contribution of an altered KYNA metabolism in the RBC to the pathogenesis of PD.  The increased activity of KAT II in correlation with the elevated KYNA level in the RBC may mediate a consecutive protective response against excitatory neurotoxic effects."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['pathology of neurodegenerative disorders', 'pathogenesis of PD'], 'process': ["Parkinson's disease", 'PD', 'synthesized by the irreversible transamination of kynurenine', 'biosynthetic enzyme', 'elevated KYNA level', 'KAT II activity', 'altered KYNA metabolism', 'increased activity', 'excitatory neurotoxic effects'], 'material': ['neuroactive kynurenine metabolites', 'kynurenic', 'KYNA', 'KYN', 'kynurenine aminotransferases', 'KAT', 'excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist', 'KYNA', 'erythrocytes', 'RBC', 'PD patients', 'age-matched controls', 'KAT I and KAT II', 'PD patients', 'plasma KYNA', 'RBC', 'PD patients', 'RBC', 'KAT', 'II', 'KYNA', 'RBC']}], 'authors': 'Hussain Mohammed Mahmood; Bakillah Ahmed', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': 'Putrescine Transaminases for the Synthesis of Saturated Nitrogen Heterocycles from Polyamines'}, {'document': ['There is increasing evidence that apoptotic and necrotic hepatocyte death following endotoxin-induced liver injury act as signals for leukocyte sequestration in the liver vasculature. p53 has been implicated to promote apoptosis through trans-activation and down-regulation of specific pro- and anti-apoptotic genes.  Here, we report that inhibition of p53 decreases apoptotic and necrotic tissue injury as well as inflammatory cell response.  Sprague-Dawley rats were injected intraperitoneally with 2.2 mg/kg pifithrin-alpha (PFT), a p53-inactivating agent, or the vehicle DMSO 30 min before intravenous exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS).  In vehicle-pretreated animals, LPS induced significant apoptosis and necrosis of hepatocytes, which was associated with intrahepatic leukocyte recruitment, microvascular dysfunction, and enzyme release.  Inhibition of p53 effectively attenuated (P<0.05) hepatocellular apoptosis and necrosis, but also reduced leukocyte recruitment and microvascular dysfunction.  Western blot analysis revealed that PFT lowered the nuclear-to-cytoplasmic p53 ratio and reduced both activation of NF-kappaB and cleavage of procaspase 3 (P<0.05).  In parallel, immunohistochemistry of PFT-pretreated, but not vehicle-pretreated, endotoxic animals exhibited nuclear p53 exclusion and reduced NF-kappaB p65 staining.  This indicates that p53 mediates, at least in part, LPS-associated apoptosis and contributes to inflammatory endotoxic tissue injury through leukocyte activation and intraorgan sequestration.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['nuclear p53 exclusion', 'inflammatory endotoxic tissue injury'], 'process': ['endotoxin-induced liver injury', 'leukocyte sequestration', 'promote apoptosis', 'trans-activation', 'down-regulation of specific pro- and anti-apoptotic genes', 'inhibition of p53', 'enzyme release', 'Inhibition of p53', 'reduced leukocyte recruitment and microvascular dysfunction', 'Western blot analysis', 'lowered the nuclear-to-cytoplasmic p53 ratio', 'activation of NF', 'cleavage of procaspase', 'immunohistochemistry', 'leukocyte activation', 'intraorgan sequestration'], 'material': ['apoptotic and necrotic hepatocyte', 'liver vasculature', 'p53', 'Sprague-Dawley rats', 'pifithrin', 'PFT', 'p53-inactivating agent', 'lipopolysaccharide', 'LPS', 'LPS', 'hepatocytes', 'intrahepatic leukocyte', 'PFT', 'PFT-pretreated,', 'p53', 'LPS']}], 'authors': 'Han Qian; Robinson Howard; Li Jianyong', 'DOI': '10.1016/j.nutres.2008.03.014', 'journal': 'Nutrition Research ', 'title': 'Experimental Dengue Virus Challenge of Human Subjects Previously Vaccinated With Live Attenuated Tetravalent Dengue Vaccines'}, {'document': ["The three-dimensional structure of diaminopelargonic acid synthase, a vitamin B6-dependent enzyme in the pathway of the biosynthesis of biotin, has been determined to 1.8 A resolution by X-ray crystallography.  The structure was solved by multi-wavelength anomalous diffraction techniques using a crystal derivatized with mercury ions.  The protein model has been refined to a crystallographic R -value of 17.5% (R -free 22.6%).  Each enzyme subunit consists of two domains, a large domain (residues 50-329) containing a seven-stranded predominantly parallel beta-sheet, surrounded by alpha-helices, and a small domain comprising residues 1-49 and 330-429.  Two subunits, related by a non-crystallographic dyad in the crystals, form the homodimeric molecule, which contains two equal active sites.  Pyridoxal-5'-phosphate is bound in a cleft formed by both domains of one subunit and the large domain of the second subunit.  The cofactor is anchored to the enzyme by a covalent linkage to the side-chain of the invariant residue Lys274.  The phosphate group interacts with main-chain nitrogen atoms and the side-chain of Ser113, located at the N terminus of an alpha-helix.  The pyridine nitrogen forms a hydrogen bond to the side-chain of the invariant residue Asp245.  Electron density corresponding to a metal ion, most likely Na(+), was found in a tight turn at the surface of the enzyme.  Structure analysis reveals that diaminopelargonic acid synthase belongs to the family of vitamin B6-dependent aminotransferases with the same fold as originally observed in aspartate aminotransferase.  A multiple structure alignment of enzymes in this family indicated that they form at least six different subclasses.  Striking differences in the fold of the N-terminal part of the polypeptide chain are one of the hallmarks of these subclasses.  Diaminopelargonic acid synthase is a member of the aminotransferase subclass III.  From the structure of the non-productive complex of the holoenzyme with the substrate 7-keto-8-aminopelargonic acid the location of the active site and residues involved in substrate binding have been identified."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['three-dimensional structure', 'aminotransferase subclass III'], 'process': ['X-ray crystallography', 'multi-wavelength anomalous diffraction techniques', 'protein model', 'covalent linkage', 'hydrogen bond', 'Structure analysis', 'multiple structure alignment', 'substrate binding'], 'material': ['diaminopelargonic acid synthase', 'vitamin B6-dependent enzyme', 'biotin', 'crystal', 'mercury ions', 'enzyme subunit', 'two domains', 'a large domain', 'seven-stranded predominantly parallel beta-sheet', 'alpha-helices', 'a small domain', 'Two subunits', 'non-crystallographic dyad', 'two equal active sites', "Pyridoxal-5'-phosphate is bound", 'subunit', 'cofactor', 'enzyme', 'phosphate group', 'main-chain nitrogen atoms', 'alpha-helix', 'pyridine nitrogen', 'Electron density', 'metal ion', 'Na(+', 'diaminopelargonic acid synthase', 'vitamin B6-dependent aminotransferases', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'N-terminal part of the polypeptide chain', 'Diaminopelargonic acid synthase', 'non-productive complex', '7-keto-8-aminopelargonic']}], 'authors': 'Cellini Barbara; Bertoldi Mariarita; Montioli Riccardo; Paiardini Alessandro; Borri Voltattorni Carla', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Current opinion in lipidology ', 'title': 'BGP-15 inhibits caspase-independent programmed cell death in acetaminophen-induced liver injury'}, {'document': ['Aromatic amino acid aminotransferase (ArAT) from Escherichia coli was overexpressed in E. coli cells, purified, and characterized.  The enzyme was similar to aspartate aminotransferase (AspAT) of E. coli in many aspects, such as gross protein structure and spectroscopic properties.  The reactions of pyridoxal 5\'-phosphate-form ArAT with amino acids and pyridoxamine 5\'-phosphate-form ArAT with oxo acids were investigated using stopped-flow spectrophotometric techniques.  The kinetic parameters for these "half" reactions could excellently explain the ArAT-catalyzed overall transamination reactions at pH 8.0.  Reactions of ArAT with aspartate and tryptophan which had been deuterated at position 2 showed isotope effects of 2.5 and 6.0 in the kcat values of the half-reactions, showing that the proton-transfer step is at least partially rate-limiting for these reactions.  ArAT and AspAT showed overlapping substrate specificity.  Both ArAT and AspAT were active toward dicarboxylic substrates.  ArAT showed, however, 10(3)-fold higher activity toward aromatic substrates than AspAT.  This high activity toward aromatic substrates was in part ascribed to the active site hydrophobicity of ArAT, which was suggested to be about 1.4 times as large as that of AspAT.  In addition to dicarboxylic substrate analogs, aromatic substrate analogs such as carboxylic acids, 2-methyl amino acids, and 3-hydroxy amino acids caused characteristic changes in the absorption spectra of ArAT, while these aromatic analogs did not significantly change the spectra of AspAT.  In particular, the erythro-3-hydroxy analogs of phenylalanine and aspartate caused a prominent absorption of ArAT at around 500 nm, which is generally ascribed to the accumulation of quinonoid intermediates.  The threo forms of these 3-hydroxy analogs acted as substrates for ArAT.  The erythro and threo forms of 3-hydroxyaspartate reacted with AspAT similarly as they reacted with ArAT; however, both forms of 3-phenylserine were poor substrates for AspAT, although phenylalanine was a fairly good substrate for AspAT.  The observations on the two erythro-3-hydroxy amino acids show the similar orientation of these analogs in the active site of ArAT, probably through a hydrogen-bonding network involving the hydroxy groups of the analogs and Tyr70, and suggest that the aromatic binding pocket is near or even overlaps the side-chain-carboxylate-binding site for dicarboxylic substrates.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['gross protein structure and spectroscopic properties', 'absorption spectra', 'aromatic binding pocket'], 'process': ['overexpressed in E. coli cells', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'AspAT', 'reactions', 'stopped-flow spectrophotometric techniques', '-catalyzed overall transamination reactions', 'Reactions', 'deuterated', 'proton-transfer step', 'active site hydrophobicity', 'accumulation of quinonoid intermediates', 'hydrogen-bonding network'], 'material': ['Aromatic amino acid aminotransferase', 'ArAT', "pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-form ArAT", 'amino acids', "pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate-form ArAT", 'oxo acids', 'kinetic parameters', 'ArAT', 'ArAT', 'aspartate', 'tryptophan', 'kcat', 'ArAT', 'AspAT', 'ArAT', 'AspAT', 'dicarboxylic substrates', 'ArAT', 'aromatic substrates', 'AspAT', 'aromatic substrates', 'ArAT', 'AspAT', 'dicarboxylic substrate analogs', 'aromatic substrate analogs', 'carboxylic acids', '2-methyl amino acids', '3-hydroxy amino acids', 'ArAT', 'aromatic analogs', 'AspAT', 'erythro-3-hydroxy analogs', 'phenylalanine', 'aspartate', 'ArAT', 'threo forms', '3-hydroxy analogs', 'ArAT', 'erythro and threo forms', '3-hydroxyaspartate', 'AspAT', 'ArAT', '3-phenylserine', 'AspAT', 'phenylalanine', 'AspAT', 'erythro-3-hydroxy amino', 'analogs', 'ArAT', 'hydroxy groups', 'analogs', 'Tyr70', 'side-chain-carboxylate-binding site', 'dicarboxylic substrates']}], 'authors': 'Williams Emma; Rumsby Gill', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Pathway of gamma-aminobutyrate metabolism in Rhizobium leguminosarum 3841 and its role in symbiosis'}, {'document': ["In rat liver there are two types of serine:pyruvate aminotransferase (SPT) whose natures are indistinguishable but whose subcellular localization are different.  One is a mitochondrial enzyme (SPTm) and the other a peroxisomal enzyme (SPTp).  We compared, in this study, the structure of mRNAs encoding SPTm and SPTp by comparison of the sizes after removal of poly(A) tail by ribonuclease H and by means of RNA blot analysis and S1 nuclease protection assay.  No differences were detected between these two mRNAs other than that about 100 nucleotides of the 5'-terminal sequence of SPTm mRNA are lacking in SPTp mRNA, and the length of the poly(A) tail is different.  Southern blot analysis of rat genomic DNA showed that the SPT gene is single.  Primer extension and S1 nuclease mapping analyses, using a DNA fragment of a genomic clone, revealed that the SPTm and SPTp mRNAs are transcribed from different initiation sites, about 70 nucleotides apart, in the same exon, exon 1.  Ribonuclease protection assay performed with RNA hybridization probe corresponding to 5'-terminal portion of SPTm mRNA also showed that the 5'-terminal sequence of SPTp mRNA is about 70 nucleotides shorter than that of hormone-responsive SPTm mRNA.  These results indicate that the different organelle distribution of SPTm and SPTp, the products of the same SPT gene, arises from transcription from different initiation sites, conferring N-terminal extension peptide, the mitochondrial targeting signal, only on the translation product of SPTm mRNA."], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['pyruvate aminotransferase', 'subcellular localization', 'comparison of the sizes', 'RNA blot analysis', 'S1 nuclease protection assay', 'Southern blot analysis', 'Primer extension', 'S1 nuclease mapping analyses', 'Ribonuclease protection assay', 'transcription from different initiation sites', 'mitochondrial targeting signal'], 'material': ['rat liver', 'serine', 'SPT', 'mitochondrial enzyme', 'SPTm', 'peroxisomal enzyme', 'SPTp', 'SPTm', 'SPTp', 'poly(A) tail', 'ribonuclease H', 'SPTm mRNA', 'SPTp mRNA', 'poly(A) tail', 'rat genomic DNA', 'SPT gene', 'DNA fragment', 'genomic clone', 'SPTm and SPTp mRNAs', 'RNA hybridization probe', 'SPTm mRNA', 'SPTp mRNA', 'hormone-responsive SPTm', 'SPTm', 'SPTp', 'SPT gene', 'N-terminal extension peptide', 'translation product', 'SPTm mRNA']}], 'authors': 'Kepplinger Berthold; Baran Halina; Kainz Astrid; Ferraz-Leite Heber; Newcombe Jea; Kalina Pavol', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Dietary virgin olive oil protects against lipid peroxidation and improves antioxidant status in the liver of rats chronically exposed to ethanol'}, {'document': ['Glutamic acid 1-semialdehyde hydrochloride was synthesized and purified.  Its prior structural characterization was extended and confirmed by 1H NMR spectroscopy and chemical analyses.  In aqueous solution at pH 1 to 2 glutamic acid 1-semialdehyde exists in a stable hydrated form, but at pH 8.0 it has a half-life of 3 to 4 min.  Spontaneous degradation of the material at pH 8.0 generated some undefined condensation products, but coincidentally a significant amount isomerized to 5-aminolevulinate.  At pH 6.8 to 7.0, glutamate 1-semialdehyde is sufficiently stable to permit routine and reproducible assay for glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase activity.  Only about 20% of the enzyme extracted from chloroplasts was sensitive to inactivation by gabaculine with no pretreatment.  However, when the enzyme was exposed to 5-aminolevulinate, levulinate or 4,5-dioxovalerate in the absence of glutamate 1-semialdehyde, it was completely inactivated by gabaculine; 4,6-dioxoheptanoate had no effect on the enzyme.  These results lead to the hypothesis that the aminotransferase exists in the chloroplast in a complex with pyridoxamine phosphate, which must be converted to the pyridoxal form before it can form a stable adduct with gabaculine.  We propose that the enzyme catalyzes the conversion of glutamate 1-semialdehyde to 5-aminolevulinate via 4,5-diaminovalerate.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['routine and reproducible assay for glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase activity'], 'process': ['structural characterization', '1H NMR spectroscopy', 'chemical analyses', 'Spontaneous degradation', 'inactivation'], 'material': ['Glutamic acid 1-semialdehyde', 'aqueous solution', 'glutamic acid 1-semialdehyde', 'condensation products', '5-aminolevulinate', 'glutamate 1-semialdehyde', 'enzyme', 'chloroplasts', 'gabaculine', 'enzyme', '5-aminolevulinate', 'levulinate', '4,5-dioxovalerate', 'glutamate 1-semialdehyde', 'gabaculine', '4,6-dioxoheptanoate', 'enzyme', 'aminotransferase', 'chloroplast', 'pyridoxamine phosphate', 'pyridoxal form', 'stable adduct', 'gabaculine', 'enzyme', 'glutamate 1-semialdehyde', '5-aminolevulinate', '4,5-diaminovalerate']}], 'authors': 'Lee Sanghyun; Lee Yeon Sil; Jung Sang Hoon; Kang Sam Sik; Shin Kuk Hyun', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Clinical chemistry ', 'title': 'New approaches to target microsomal triglyceride transfer protein'}, {'document': ["The nucleotide sequence of ornithine aminotransferase mRNA from rat liver, including the entire coding and 3' untranslated regions, was determined from two overlapping cDNA clones.  The mRNA encodes a precursor polypeptide of 439 amino acid residues with a molecular weight of 48,332.  The deduced amino acid composition of the proposed mature enzyme sequence (residues 35 through 439) was in good agreement with that reported for the purified protein.  The amino-terminal segment of the precursor corresponding to residues 1 through 34 has an overall positive charge, containing 6 basic residues and only a single acidic residue, and is postulated to be the mitochondrial leader sequence.  The first 22 amino acid residues of the proposed leader sequences share 54% homology with the leader peptide of rat ornithine transcarbamylase precursor and more limited homology to the leader peptides of other nuclear-encoded mitochondrial matrix proteins.  Homology was also observed between residues 286 through 362 ornithine aminotransferase precursor and a region containing the pyridoxyl phosphate binding domain of mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['nucleotide sequence'], 'process': ['positive charge'], 'material': ['ornithine aminotransferase mRNA', 'rat liver', 'cDNA clones', 'precursor polypeptide', '439 amino acid residues', 'mature enzyme', 'purified protein', 'amino-terminal segment', '6 basic residues', 'mitochondrial leader sequence', 'leader peptide', 'rat ornithine transcarbamylase precursor', 'leader peptides', 'nuclear-encoded mitochondrial matrix proteins', 'residues 286 through 362', 'ornithine aminotransferase precursor', 'pyridoxyl phosphate binding domain', 'mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase']}], 'authors': 'Shin J-S; Yun H; Jang J-W; Park I; Kim B-G', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Neuro-Signals ', 'title': 'Crystal structure of human kynurenine aminotransferase II'}, {'document': ['Twenty-one men, 15 nonobese and 6 obese, were housed on a metabolic ward for 30 days where they received ad libitum a baseline diet of conventional foods contg. 25-30% of total calories as sucrose  [57-50-1] for 18 days and a calorically dild. diet contg. <10% sucrose for 12 days.  Serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT)  [9000-86-6] and serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT)  [9000-97-9] levels rose significantly when subjects consumed the baseline diet and returned to their original levels on the calorically dild. aspartame-sweetened diet.  Markedly abnormal transaminase levels developed in 2 subjects on the baseline diet and they had to be discharged from the study.  Correlations between various components of the diet and enzyme changes suggested that both surplus calories and a high sucrose intake played a role in the elevation of enzyme levels.  Serum triglyceride levels also showed a significant redn. when the subjects were switched from the baseline to the calorically dild. diet.  In a 2nd study designed to test systematically the role of sucrose on SGPT and SGOT levels and on serum triglyceride levels, 6 nonobese subjects received a carefully controlled liq. diet, relatively high in linoleic acid content, contg. 50% of total calories as either sucrose or maltose.  In comparison with the 1st study, sucrose had a smaller but still significant effect on the levels of both enzymes, but there was no significant effect on triglyceride levels.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['elevation of enzyme levels', '2nd study', 'test systematically the role of sucrose on SGPT and SGOT levels'], 'process': ['SGPT', 'serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase', 'SGOT', 'abnormal transaminase levels', 'enzyme changes', 'serum triglyceride levels', 'linoleic acid content', 'triglyceride levels'], 'material': ['metabolic ward', 'baseline diet', 'conventional foods', 'sucrose', 'calorically dild. diet', 'Serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase', 'baseline diet', 'calorically dild.', 'aspartame-sweetened diet', 'diet', 'surplus calories', 'high sucrose', 'Serum triglyceride', 'carefully controlled liq. diet', 'sucrose', 'maltose', 'sucrose']}], 'authors': 'Fuchs, Thilo M.; Schneider, Boris; Krumbach, Karin; Eggeling, Lothar; Gross, Roy', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Archives of pharmacal research ', 'title': 'Human wild-type alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase and its naturally occurring G82E variant: functional properties and physiological implications'}, {'document': ['The neuronal distribution of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transaminase (GABA-T), the enzyme which metabolizes GABA, has been mapped in rat brain.  The method involves staining for newly synthesized GABA-T by the previously established nitro blue tetrazolium technique in animals killed 8-48 hours after administration of gabaculine, an irreversible inhibitor of GABA-T.  Neuronal staining is obscured by staining of other elements if initial suppression is inadequate or survival times postgabaculine are too long.  With appropriate conditions, GABA-T-positive neuronal somata can be widely detected.  The stained cells include neuronal groups previously reported to be GABAergic on the basis of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD)-colchicine immunocytochemistry and other methods, i.e.: Purkinje, basket, Golgi, and stellate neurons of the cerebellum; basket and stellate neurons of the hippocampus; granule and periglomerular cells of the olfactory bulb; magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamus; and neurons of the striatum, pallidum, entopeduncular nucleus, cortex, medial septal area, diagonal band, substantia innominata, reticular nucleus of the thalamus, substantia nigra, and dorsal raphe.  Other cells that stain intensely for GABA-T and may be GABAergic include neurons in the midlateral septal area, accumbens, the central medial and basal nuclei of the amygdala, zona incerta, the brainstem reticular formation, central gray, interstitial nucleus of Cajal, and various thalamic nuclei including the periventricular, intralaminar, rhomboid, and subparafascicular.  Known non-GABA neuronal groups are negative for GABA-T staining under these conditions, reinforcing the hypothesis that GABA neurons are far more GABA-T intensive than other neurons.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['neuronal distribution of'], 'process': ['T', 'staining', 'nitro blue tetrazolium technique', 'Neuronal staining', 'initial suppression', 'glutamate decarboxylase', 'GAD)-colchicine immunocytochemistry', 'GABA-T staining', 'GABA-T intensive'], 'material': ['gamma-aminobutyric', 'GABA', 'GABA', '-', 'GABA', 'gabaculine', 'irreversible inhibitor of GABA', 'survival times', 'GABA-T-positive neuronal somata', 'neuronal groups', 'Purkinje', 'basket', 'Golgi', 'stellate neurons', 'basket and stellate neurons', 'granule and periglomerular cells', 'magnocellular neurons', 'neurons', 'striatum', 'pallidum', 'entopeduncular nucleus', 'cortex', 'medial septal area', 'diagonal band', 'reticular nucleus', 'substantia nigra', 'dorsal raphe', 'GABA-T', 'GABAergic', 'neurons', 'midlateral septal area', 'accumbens', 'central medial and basal nuclei', 'zona incerta', 'brainstem reticular formation', 'central gray', 'interstitial nucleus', 'Cajal', 'thalamic nuclei', 'periventricular', 'rhomboid', 'non-GABA neuronal groups', 'GABA neurons', 'neurons']}], 'authors': 'Ledwidge R; Blanchard J S', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Applied microbiology and biotechnology ', 'title': 'Selected exonic sequencing of the AGXT gene provides a genetic diagnosis in 50% of patients with primary hyperoxaluria type 1'}, {'document': ['Pseudomonas aeruginosa possesses dual enzymatic sequences to both L-phenylalanine and L-tyrosine, a biosynthetic arrangement further complicated by the presence of five aromatic aminotransferases.  Each aminotransferase is capable of transamination in vitro with any of the three keto acid intermediates in the aromatic pathway (phenylpyruvate, 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate, or prephenate).  The fractional contribution of these aminotransferases to particular transamination reactions in vivo can best be approached through the systematic and sequential elimination of individual aminotransferase activities by mutation.  A program of sequential mutagenesis has produced two aminotransferase-deficient mutations.  The first mutation imposed a phenotype of bradytrophy for L-phenylalanine (doubling time of 2.4 h in minimal salts/glucose medium compared to a 1.0-h doubling time for wild type).  This mutant completely lacked an enzyme denoted aminotransferase AT-2.  A genetic background of aminotransferase AT-2 deficiency was used to select for a second mutation which produced a phenotype of multiple auxotrophy for L-phenylalanine, L-aspartate, and L-glutamate.  The double mutant completely lacked activity for aromatic aminotransferase AT-1 in addition to the missing aminotransferase AT-2.  Enzymes AT-1 (Mr = 64,000) and AT-2 (Mr = 50,000) were readily separated from one another by gel filtration and were individually characterized for pH optima, freeze-thaw stability, heat lability, and molecular weight.  The phenotypic and enzymological characterizations of the aminotransferase mutants strongly support the primary in vivo role of enzyme AT-2 in L-phenylalanine and L-tyrosine biosynthesis, while enzyme AT-1 must primarily be engaged in L-aspartate and L-glutamate synthesis.  The substrate specificities and possible in vivo functions for AT-3, AT-4, and AT-5 are also considered.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['biosynthetic arrangement', 'fractional contribution', 'substrate specificities'], 'process': ['transamination', 'transamination reactions', 'systematic and sequential elimination of individual aminotransferase activities', 'mutation', 'sequential mutagenesis', 'aminotransferase-deficient mutations', 'aminotransferase AT-2 deficiency', 'gel filtration', 'biosynthesis,', 'L-aspartate and L-glutamate synthesis'], 'material': ['Pseudomonas aeruginosa', 'L-phenylalanine', 'L-tyrosine', 'aromatic aminotransferases', 'aminotransferase', 'keto acid intermediates', 'phenylpyruvate', '4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate', 'prephenate', 'L-phenylalanine', 'minimal salts/glucose medium', 'genetic background', 'multiple auxotrophy', 'L-phenylalanine', 'L-aspartate', 'L-glutamate', 'double mutant', 'aromatic aminotransferase', 'AT-1', 'AT-2', 'aminotransferase mutants', 'L-phenylalanine', 'AT-3', 'AT-4', 'AT-5']}], 'authors': 'Davoodi J; Drown P M; Bledsoe R K; Wallin R; Reinhart G D; Hutson S M', 'DOI': '10.1128/JB.182.13.3626-3631.2000', 'journal': 'Journal of Bacteriology ', 'title': 'Age-related increase of kynurenic acid in human cerebrospinal fluid - IgG and beta2-microglobulin changes'}, {'document': ["The influence of particular enzyme activities on the flux of metabolites in a pathway can be estimated by 'modulating' enzymes (i.e. changing turnover or concentration) and measuring the response in various parts of the system.  By controlling the nuclear ration of two genetically different nuclear types in heterokaryons, the enzyme concentrations at four different steps in the arginine pathway were decreased over a range.  This range was extended by the use of bradytrophs, mutant strains specifying enzymes with greatly diminished enzyme activities.  Strains altered simultaneously at more than one step were also constructed by genetic recombination.  By measuring the outputs of the pathway and the steady-state concentrations of intermediate pools, the fluxes in different parts of the pathway were calculated.  This allowed the construction of flux/enzyme relationships, the slope of which is a measure of the sensitivity of a flux to the change in enzyme activity at that step.  All fluxes were found to be considerably buffered for quite substantial decreases in the activities of all enzymes.  Mass action plays an important part in this phenomenon, as do inhibition and repression.  Because of the existence of expansion fluxes in growing systems, we find quantitatively different fluxes in different parts of the single pathway.  For the same reason some enzyme modulations given decreased fluxes in one part and increased fluxes in another.  The understanding of control in the pathway thus involves consideration of many mechanisms operating simultaneously and the estimation of changes in the whole system.  The concept of a 'rate-limiting step' is found to be inadequate and is replaced by a quantitative measure, the Sensitivity Coefficient, which takes account of all the interactions.  It is shown that control of the flux is shared among all the enzymes of the pathway.  The results are discussed in terms of the theory of flux control."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['arginine pathway', 'understanding of control in the pathway', "'rate-limiting step"], 'process': ["'modulating' enzymes", 'changing turnover or concentration', 'measuring the response in various parts of the system', 'controlling the nuclear ration', 'genetic recombination', 'Mass action', 'inhibition', 'repression', 'expansion fluxes', 'enzyme modulations', 'decreased fluxes', 'estimation of changes in the whole system', 'quantitative measure', 'Sensitivity Coefficient', 'control of the flux', 'flux control'], 'material': ['flux of metabolites', 'two genetically different nuclear types', 'enzyme', 'bradytrophs', 'mutant strains', 'steady-state concentrations', 'intermediate pools', 'fluxes in different parts of the pathway', 'fluxes', 'enzymes']}], 'authors': 'Jauch D; Urbanska E M; Guidetti P; Bird E D; Vonsattel J P; Whetsell W O Jr; Schwarcz R', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Biochemistry ', 'title': 'Anti-oxidant activities of fucosterol from the marine algae Pelvetia siliquosa'}, {'document': ["The synthesis of methionine from 5'-methylthioadenosine was examined in vitro using cell-free homogenates of rat liver.  We had previously reported that methionine synthesized by this system contained carbons from the ribose moiety of 5'-methylthioadenosine (Backlund, P.  S., Jr., and Smith, R.  A. (1981) J.  Biol.  Chem. 256, 1533-1535).  The present study examines some of the steps involved in this conversion. 2-Keto-4-methylthiobutyrate was identified as one of the products of 5'-[methyl]14C]methylthioadenosine when incubated in vitro with rat liver homogenates.  Partial purification of the enzyme system by gel exclusion chromatography to remove small molecular weight substrates and cofactors revealed that synthesis of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyrate requires magnesium and is inhibited by calcium. 5-Methylthioribose 1-phosphate can replace 5'-methylthioadenosine as a substrate for methionine synthesis under these conditions, but 5-methylthioribose cannot. 5-Methylthioribonic acid was prepared and was found not to be an intermediate compound in this pathway.  The final step in this pathway for methionine synthesis is then the transamination of the keto acid, catalyzed by glutamine and asparagine transaminases."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['examines some of the steps'], 'process': ["synthesis of methionine from 5'-methylthioadenosine", 'incubated', 'Partial purification', 'gel exclusion chromatography', 'synthesis of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyrate', 'methionine synthesis', 'methionine synthesis', 'transamination'], 'material': ['cell-free homogenates', 'methionine', 'ribose moiety', '2-Keto-4-methylthiobutyrate', 'rat liver homogenates', 'small molecular weight substrates', 'cofactors', 'magnesium', 'calcium', '5-Methylthioribose 1-phosphate', '5-methylthioribose', '5-Methylthioribonic', 'intermediate compound', 'the keto acid', 'glutamine', 'asparagine']}], 'authors': 'Goodwin T M; Montoro M; Mestman J H', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Purification, characterization, and molecular cloning of a novel amine:pyruvate transaminase from Vibrio fluvialis JS17'}, {'document': ['Gabaculine (5-amino-1,3-cyclohexadienylcarboxylic acid), a naturally occurring amino acid isolated from Streptomyces toyacaenis, is an irreversible inhibitor of bacterial pyridoxal phosphate linked gamma-aminobutyric acid-alpha-ketoglutaric acid transaminase with a t 1/2 (25 degrees C) of 9 min at 3 X 10(-7) M.  Gabaculine is a substrate for gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase.  The measured KI is 2.86 X 10(-6) M, and the kcat for its turnover is 1.15 X 10(-2) S-1 at 25 degrees C.  When gabaculine is transaminated by the enzyme, it is converted to a cyclohexatrienyl system with one exo double bond.  Upon spontaneous aromatization, this high energy intermediate is transformed into a stable m-anthranilic acid derivative (m-carboxyphenylpyridoxamine phosphate), which results in the covalent and irreversible modification of the cofactor.  This adduct is bound tightly to the active site of the enzyme and can be liberated under denaturing conditions.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['KI', 'kcat', 'spontaneous aromatization', 'covalent and irreversible modification'], 'material': ['Gabaculine', '5-amino-1,3-cyclohexadienylcarboxylic acid', 'naturally occurring amino acid', 'Streptomyces toyacaenis', 'irreversible inhibitor', 'Gabaculine', 'gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase', 'gabaculine', 'enzyme', 'cyclohexatrienyl system', 'high energy intermediate', 'm-anthranilic acid derivative', 'm-carboxyphenylpyridoxamine phosphate', 'cofactor', 'adduct', 'active site', 'enzyme']}], 'authors': 'Ye Q Z; Liu J; Walsh C T', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of the neurological sciences ', 'title': 'Characterization of a Bordetella pertussis diaminopimelate (DAP) biosynthesis locus identifies dapC, a novel gene coding for an N-succinyl-L,L-DAP aminotransferase'}, {'document': ['When baker\'s yeast spheroplasts were lysed by mild osmotic shock, practically all of the isopropylmalate isomerase and the beta-isopropylmalate dehydrogenase was released into the 30,000 x g supernatant fraction, as was the cytosol marker enzyme, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. alpha-Isopropylmalate synthase, however, was not detected in the initial supernatant, but could be progressively solubilized by homogenization, appearing more slowly than citrate synthase but faster than cytochrome oxidase.  Of the total glutamate-alpha-ketoisocaproate transaminase activity, approximately 20% was in the initial soluble fraction, whereas solubilization of the remainder again required homogenization of the spheroplast lysate.  Results from sucrose density gradient centrifugation of a cell-free particulate fraction and comparison with marker enzymes suggested that alpha-isopropylmalate synthase was located in the mitochondria.  It thus appears that, in yeast, the first specific enzyme in the leucine biosynthetic pathway (alpha-isopropylmalate synthase) is particulate, whereas the next two enzymes in the pathway (isopropylmalate isomerase and beta-isopropylmalate dehydrogenase) are "soluble," with glutamate-alpha-ketoisocaproate transaminase activity being located in both the cytosol and particulate cell fractions.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['lysed', 'mild osmotic shock', 'homogenization', 'citrate synthase', 'solubilization', 'homogenization', 'sucrose density gradient centrifugation', 'comparison', 'leucine biosynthetic pathway'], 'material': ["baker's yeast spheroplasts", 'isopropylmalate isomerase', 'beta-isopropylmalate dehydrogenase', 'cytosol marker enzyme', 'glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase', 'alpha-Isopropylmalate synthase', 'supernatant', 'cytochrome oxidase', 'soluble fraction', 'spheroplast lysate', 'cell-free particulate fraction', 'marker enzymes', 'alpha-isopropylmalate synthase', 'mitochondria', 'yeast', 'alpha-isopropylmalate synthase', 'isopropylmalate isomerase', 'beta-isopropylmalate dehydrogenase', 'glutamate-alpha-ketoisocaproate transaminase activity', 'cytosol and particulate cell fractions']}], 'authors': 'Voellmy R; Leisinger T', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'American journal of obstetrics and gynecology ', 'title': 'The dual biosynthetic capability of N-acetylornithine aminotransferase in arginine and lysine biosynthesis'}, {'document': ['The present study aims to clarify the effects of sex, age, body mass index (BMI), and puberty on transaminase serum levels in children and adolescents and to provide new age- and sex-related percentiles for alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT).  Venous blood and anthropometric data were collected from 4,126 cases.  Excluded were cases of participants with potential hepatotoxic medication, with evidence of potential illness at the time of blood sampling and non-normal BMI (BMI <10th or >90th).  The resulting data (N = 3,131 cases) were used for the calcns. of ALT, AST, and GGT percentiles.  Age- and sex-related ref. intervals were established by using an LMS method of Cole-type method.  Serum levels of transaminases follow age-specific patterns and relate to the onset of puberty.  This observation is more pronounced in girls than in boys.  ALT percentiles showed similar-shaped patterns in both sexes.  Multivariate regression confirmed significant effects of puberty and BMI-SDS (β = 2.21) on ALT.  Surprisingly, AST serum levels were neg. influenced by age (β = -1.42) and BMI-SDS (β = -0.15).  GGT percentiles revealed significant sex-specific differences, correlated pos. with age (β = 0.37) and showed significant assocn. with BMI-SDS (β = 1.16).  Conclusion: Current ref. values of ALT, AST, and GGT serum levels were calcd. for children between 11 mo and 16.0 years, using modern anal. and statistical methods.  This study extends the current knowledge about transaminases by revealing influences of age, sex, BMI, and puberty on serum concns. of all three parameters and has for these parameters one of the largest sample sizes published so far. (Hepatol. 2017).'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['clarify the effects of sex, age,', 'transaminase serum levels', 'calcns.', 'Serum levels of transaminases', 'extends the current knowledge about transaminases', 'Hepatol. 2017).'], 'process': ['alanine aminotransferase', 'AST', 'GGT', 'blood sampling', 'LMS method of Cole-type method', 'ALT percentiles', 'Multivariate regression', 'GGT percentiles', 'modern anal. and statistical methods'], 'material': ['ALT', 'aspartate aminotransferase', 'γ-glutamyltransferase', 'Venous blood and anthropometric data', 'hepatotoxic medication', 'ALT', 'AST', 'girls', 'ALT', 'AST serum levels', 'ALT', 'AST', 'GGT']}], 'authors': 'Fowler L J; John R A', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Overexpression and characterization of the human mitochondrial and cytosolic branched-chain aminotransferases'}, {'document': ["The kynurenine pathway (KP) of L-tryptophan metabolism produces several neuroactive metabolites with an amino acid structure.  These metabolites may play an important role in the pathophysiology of irritable bowel syndrome, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, schizophrenia, AIDS-dementia complex, depression, epilepsy and the aging process.  Modulation of the KP through inhibition or stimulation of enzyme synthesis and activity can be an alternative approach to traditional therapy.  Furthermore, it may be responsible for the altered functioning of the enteric nervous system and the central nervous system.  There is evidence that the KP is sensitive to changes in the concentration of many vitamins and minerals that play a crucial role as coenzymes and cofactors in the de novo synthesis of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide coenzyme.  A reduction in the availability of the active form of vitamin B6 (pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, PLP) is known to affect tryptophan hydroxylase, kynurenine aminotransferase and kynureninase (KYNU).  Vitamin B2 deficiencies result in a reduction in the activity of the flavin adenine dinucleotide dependent enzyme, kynurenine 3-monooxygenase.  Minerals are also responsible for the proper functioning of enzymes engaged in L-tryptophan metabolism.  Mn(2+), Zn(2+), Co(2+) and Cu(2+) influence KYNU activity, and Mg(2+) regulates quinolinate phosphoribosyl transferase.  Fe(2+) is responsible for the proper functioning of both indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase and 3-hydroxy-anthranilic acid dioxygenase.  Changes in the concentration of KP metabolites and in enzymatic activity have been found in many pathological states.  Therefore, it is justifiable to regulate the concentration of certain kynurenines or enzymes in the KP which may provide a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of various health impairments.  This review demonstrates the role of vitamin and mineral activity on the KP, which may have an effect on the proper functioning of the human organism.  Surplus administration of vitamins did not elicit any beneficial effects on L-tryptophan metabolism.  Whether a mineral surplus influences L-tryptophan metabolism is still not established.  It seems that cofactor deficiencies influence the KP far more than surpluses."], 'annotation': [{'task': ['amino acid structure', 'pathophysiology of', 'irritable bowel syndrome', 'altered functioning of the enteric nervous system and the central nervous system', 'potential therapeutic target', 'treatment of various health impairments', 'role of vitamin and mineral activity', 'L-tryptophan metabolism', 'L-tryptophan metabolism'], 'process': ['kynurenine pathway', 'KP', 'L-tryptophan metabolism', 'schizophrenia', 'depression', 'epilepsy', 'aging process', 'Modulation of the', 'inhibition or stimulation of enzyme synthesis and activity', 'traditional therapy', 'de novo synthesis of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide coenzyme', 'reduction in the availability of the active form of vitamin B6', 'tryptophan hydroxylase', 'Vitamin B2 deficiencies', 'reduction in the activity', 'kynurenine 3-monooxygenase', 'L-tryptophan metabolism', 'Changes in the concentration', 'enzymatic activity', 'regulate the concentration of certain', 'Surplus administration of vitamins', 'cofactor deficiencies'], 'material': ['neuroactive metabolites', 'Alzheimer', 'Parkinson', 'Huntington', 'AIDS-dementia complex', 'KP', 'vitamins', 'minerals', 'coenzymes', 'pyridoxal', 'PLP', 'kynurenine aminotransferase', 'kynureninase', 'KYNU', 'flavin adenine dinucleotide dependent enzyme', 'Minerals', 'Mn(2+', 'Zn(2+', 'Co(2+', 'Cu(2', '+', 'KYNU', 'Mg(2', '+', 'quinolinate phosphoribosyl transferase', 'Fe(2+', 'indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase', '3-hydroxy-anthranilic acid dioxygenase', 'KP metabolites', 'kynurenines', 'KP', 'KP', 'mineral surplus', 'KP', 'surpluses']}], 'authors': 'Queener S F; Gunsalus I C', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Journal of bacteriology ', 'title': "Dysfunction of brain kynurenic acid metabolism in Huntington's disease: focus on kynurenine aminotransferases"}, {'document': ['Protein glycosylation catalyzed by the O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) plays a critical role in various biological processes.  In Streptococcus pneumoniae, the core enzyme GtfA and co-activator GtfB form an OGT complex to glycosylate the serine-rich repeat (SRR) of adhesin PsrP (pneumococcal serine-rich repeat protein), which is involved in the infection and pathogenesis.  Here we report the 2.0 ÅA crystal structure of GtfA, revealing a β-meander add-on domain beyond the catalytic domain.  It represents a novel add-on domain, which is distinct from the all-α-tetratricopeptide repeats in the only two structure-known OGTs.  Structural analyses combined with binding assays indicate that this add-on domain contributes to forming an active GtfA-GtfB complex and recognizing the acceptor protein.  In addition, the in vitro glycosylation system enables us to map the O-linkages to the serine residues within the first SRR of PsrP.  These findings suggest that fusion with an add-on domain might be a universal mechanism for diverse OGTs that recognize varying acceptor proteins/peptides.'], 'annotation': [{'task': [], 'process': ['Protein glycosylation', 'O-GlcNAc transferase', 'OGT', 'crystal structure', 'Structural analyses', 'binding assays', 'in vitro glycosylation system', 'map the O-linkages', 'fusion'], 'material': ['Streptococcus pneumoniae', 'core enzyme', 'GtfA', 'co-activator', 'GtfB', 'OGT complex', 'serine-rich repeat', 'SRR', 'PsrP', 'pneumococcal serine-rich repeat protein', 'GtfA', 'β-meander add-on domain', 'add-on domain', 'all-α-tetratricopeptide repeats', 'OGTs', 'add-on domain', 'GtfA-GtfB complex', 'acceptor protein', 'add-on domain', 'OGTs', 'acceptor proteins/peptides']}], 'authors': 'Baxter J D; Tomkins G M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Biochemical journal ', 'title': 'Transient hyperthyroidism and hyperemesis gravidarum: clinical aspects'}, {'document': ['The present study investigated the effect of treating diabetic rats with eugenol (EG).  In vitro enzyme activity was measured in the presence of eugenol, and it was found to inhibit pancreatic α-amylase (IC50 = 62.53 μg/mL) and lipase (IC50 = 72.34 μg/mL) as well as angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity (IC50 = 130.67 μg/mL).  In vivo, EG reduced the activity of amylase in serum, pancreas and intestine also the peak level of glucose by 60% compared to diabetic rats.  Furthermore, eugenol similar to acarbose reduced serum glycosylated Hb (HbA1c), lipase and ACE levels.  In addn., treatments with EG showed notable decrease in serum total-cholesterol, triglycerides and low d. lipoprotein-cholesterol levels with an increase of high d. lipoprotein-cholesterol.  Overall, EG significantly reverted back to near normal the values of the biochem. biomarkers such as transaminases (AST&ALT), alk. phosphatase (ALP), creatine phosphokinase (CPK) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) activities, total-bilirubin, creatinine, urea and uric acid rates.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['treating diabetic rats', 'addn.'], 'process': ['inhibit pancreatic α-amylase', 'angiotensin converting enzyme', 'ACE', 'reduced the activity of amylase', 'reduced serum glycosylated Hb', 'lipase', 'transaminases', 'AST&ALT', 'alk. phosphatase', 'ALP', 'creatine phosphokinase', 'CPK', 'GGT'], 'material': ['eugenol', 'EG', 'In vitro enzyme activity', 'eugenol', 'lipase', 'EG', 'pancreas', 'eugenol', 'acarbose', 'EG', 'high d. lipoprotein', 'EG', 'biochem. biomarkers', 'gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase', 'total-bilirubin', 'creatinine', 'urea']}], 'authors': 'Herzfeld A; Knox W E', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'p-Aminobenzoate synthesis in Escherichia coli: purification and characterization of PabB as aminodeoxychorismate synthase and enzyme X as aminodeoxychorismate lyase'}, {'document': ['UNLABELLED:  Cholesteryl ester storage disease (CESD), an inherited deficiency of lysosomal acid lipase (LAL), is an underappreciated cause of progressive liver disease with no approved therapy.  Presenting features include dyslipidemia, elevated transaminases, and hepatomegaly.  To assess the clinical effects and safety of the recombinant human LAL, sebelipase alfa, nine patients received four once-weekly infusions (0.35, 1, or 3 mg·kg(-1) ) in LAL-CL01, which is the first human study of this investigational agent.  Patients completing LAL-CL01 were eligible to enroll in the extension study (LAL-CL04) in which they again received four once-weekly infusions of sebelipase alfa (0.35, 1, or 3 mg·kg(-1) ) before transitioning to long-term every-other-week infusions (1 or 3 mg·kg(-1) ).  Sebelipase alfa was well tolerated, with mostly mild adverse events unrelated to sebelipase alfa.  No antidrug antibodies were detected.  Transaminases decreased in patients in LAL-CL01 and increased between studies.  In seven patients receiving ongoing sebelipase alfa treatment in LAL-CL04, the mean ± standard deviation (SD) decreases for alanine transaminase and aspartate aminotransferase at week 12 compared to the baseline values in LAL-CL01 were 46 ± 21 U/L (-52%) and 21 ± 14 U/L (-36%), respectively (P ≤ 0.05).  Through week 12 of LAL-CL04, these seven patients also showed mean decreases from baseline in total cholesterol of 44 ± 41 mg/dL (-22%; P = 0.047), low density lipoprotein-cholesterol of 29 ± 31 mg/dL (-27%; P = 0.078), and triglycerides of 50 ± 38 mg/dL (-28%, P = 0.016) and increases in high density lipoprotein-cholesterol of 5 mg/dL (15%; P = 0.016).  CONCLUSION:  These data establish that sebelipase alfa, an investigational enzyme replacement, in patients with CESD is well tolerated, rapidly decreases serum transaminases, and that these improvements are sustained with long-term dosing and are accompanied by improvements in serum lipid profile.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['progressive liver disease'], 'process': ['Cholesteryl ester storage disease', 'CESD', 'deficiency of lysosomal acid lipase', 'CESD', 'decreases serum transaminases'], 'material': ['LAL', 'dyslipidemia', 'elevated transaminases', 'recombinant human LAL', 'sebelipase alfa', 'LAL-CL01', 'extension study', 'LAL-CL04', 'sebelipase', 'alfa', 'Sebelipase alfa', 'mild adverse events', 'sebelipase alfa', 'Transaminases', 'LAL-CL01', 'sebelipase alfa', 'LAL-CL04', 'alanine transaminase', 'LAL-CL01', 'LAL-CL04', 'total cholesterol', 'low density lipoprotein', 'triglycerides', 'sebelipase', 'alfa', 'investigational enzyme replacement', 'serum lipid profile']}], 'authors': 'Itikawa H; Baumberg S; Vogel H J', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ', 'title': 'Dual role for N-2-acetylornithine 5-aminotransferase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa in arginine biosynthesis and arginine catabolism'}, {'document': ['Alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase is a peroxisomal enzyme, of which various missense mutations lead to irreversible kidney damage via primary hyperoxaluria type 1, in part caused by improper peroxisomal targeting.  To unravel the molecular mechanism of its recognition by the peroxisomal receptor Pex5p, we have determined the crystal structure of the respective cargo-receptor complex.  It shows an extensive protein/protein interface, with contributions from residues of the peroxisomal targeting signal 1 and additional loops of the C-terminal domain of the cargo.  Sequence segments that are crucial for receptor recognition and hydrophobic core interactions within alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase are overlapping, explaining why receptor recognition highly depends on a properly folded protein.  We subsequently characterized several enzyme variants in vitro and in vivo and show that even minor protein fold perturbations are sufficient to impair Pex5p receptor recognition.  We discuss how the knowledge of the molecular parameters for alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase required for peroxisomal translocation could become useful for improved hyperoxaluria type 1 treatment.'], 'annotation': [{'task': ['unravel the molecular mechanism of its recognition by the peroxisomal receptor', 'receptor recognition', 'receptor recognition', 'improved hyperoxaluria type 1 treatment'], 'process': ['missense mutations', 'improper peroxisomal targeting', 'Pex5p receptor recognition', 'peroxisomal translocation'], 'material': ['Alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'peroxisomal enzyme', 'Pex5p', 'crystal structure', 'cargo-receptor complex', 'peroxisomal targeting signal', 'additional loops', 'C-terminal domain', 'cargo', 'Sequence segments', 'hydrophobic core interactions', 'alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase', 'properly folded protein', 'minor protein fold perturbations', 'alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase']}], 'authors': 'Hayashi S I; Granner D K; Tomkins G M', 'DOI': 'none', 'journal': 'The Journal of biological chemistry ', 'title': 'Active-site-directed irreversible inhibition of rat brain 4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase by ethanolamine O-sulphate in vitro and in vivo'}]